
1 Cover Letter 
Cover Letter 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
We accept all the provisions set forth in the solicitation and amendments with no 
exceptions. The undersigned will be the responder and responder’s representative for this 
solicitation. We warrant that, to the best of our knowledge and belief there are no relevant 
facts or circumstances which could give rise to organizational conflicts of interest.  The 
proposal is valid for 180 days from the date of submission.  
 
1. Name of Company (Legal Business name): innoSoul, Inc. 
The legal status (e.g. corporation, sole proprietor, etc): Corporation Since 2003 
Address of Company: 349 Kinderkamack Rd Westwood, NJ 07675         
Contact Email: bids@innosoul.com  
Contact Telephone Number: 518 400 0425 
2. Company Contact/Principal Office: Rashi Shamshabad (officer: President) 
3. Location of the facility from which the consultant would operate: 349 Kinderkamack Rd 
Westwood, NJ 07675. 
4. The person who signs this letter is authorized to contractually bind the Bidder’s firm 
5. No variations between the Bidder’s Proposal and the requirements of this solicitation 
6. There are NO debarments or terminations for default that have been experienced by the 
Bidder.  
 
 
With Warm Regards         
 
Rashi Shamshabad,  
President, innoSoul, Inc. 
Ph: 518 400 0425  
email: bids@innosoul.com  
 
2 Executive Summary and Company Information 
innoSoul Inc. is honored to present this proposal in response to Solicitation/Event: showcasing 
our commitment to delivering exceptional temporary consulting services, including IT consulting 
solutions, to meet the needs of the client. Since our inception in 2003, innoSoul Inc. has excelled 
in providing end -to-end consulting solutions, leveraging our extensive experience with state 
agencies and major private sector clients across the United States. 
 
Our proposal aligns with the mission of the client to streamline s ervice delivery while ensuring 
compliance, efficiency, and cost -effectiveness. Our proven methodologies focus on structured 
planning, resource optimization, and change management, which mitigate risks and drive 
successful outcomes. 

 
 Page 1 of 58 
 
 
Key Highlights: 
 Expertise: Over two decades of specialized experience in IT consulting and consulting, 
serving diverse public and private sector clients, including notable state agencies such as 
NY, TX, NC, MN, and SC. 
 Scalability: Strong nationwide network, including 2,7 50+ partners, ensuring rapid 
deployment of qualified resources to fulfill both immediate and long -term consulting 
needs. 
 Technology-Driven Solutions: Advanced applicant tracking systems (ATS), automation 
in recruitment, and collaboration tools that enhance  efficiency, reduce timelines, and 
improve candidate matching. 
 Commitment to Diversity:  As a woman -owned organization, we actively promote 
partnerships with minority - and woman -owned subcontractors, fostering inclusivity in 
every engagement. 
 Proven Track Record: Achieved retention rates exceeding 90% over the past three years, 
with a flawless history of meeting SLA requirements and delivering sustainable results. 
 
With a shared vision of driving operational excellence, innoSoul  Inc. is uniquely positioned to 
partner with [agency/entity name] in delivering high -value consulting solutions that align with 
your strategic goals. 
 
We look forward to the opportunity to collaborate and are confident in our ability to meet and 
exceed your expectations through this contract. 
2.1 Bidder Information 
innoSoul, Inc. was first started in the state of NV in 2003. innoSoul, Inc. is a 
corporation. innoSoul, Inc. solution offerings are based on the concept of full IT 
consulting life cycle. innoSoul ensures planned, result-oriented and end-to-end 
solution with emphasis on planning, account management and change management 
with consistent monitoring and tracking of resources which results in substantial 
reduction of implementation related risks and disruptions. innoSoul provides high 
value solutions for various state and local governments in the USA, using the 
proven consulting methodology. innoSoul utilizes best practices facilitating clients a 
chance to understand technical possibilities effectively utilizing the power of 
technology. 
 
innoSoul is working with various organizations in private and public sector.  It offers 
necessary resources and expertise to augment client IT consulting needs. Since 
2003 we are experienced in IT consulting and innovation. innoSoul understands 
how to assess customer’s needs, from both a business and technological 
perspective. innoSoul offers an array of services through its Cost Optimization 
practices that will help customers assess, optimize, and consolidate their IT 
resources. Customers will then be able to make the move through a realistic 
assessment to see how our consulting can meet their requirements for today, 
tomorrow, and beyond. 
 
 
 Page 2 of 58 
 
innoSoul is IBM partner with inception and specializes in IBM integration 
technologies. We carved out a niche in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) 
offerings and providing services to major state and private sector clients. We 
provided our IT staff with various skills to NY state agencies (DOL, DCJS, DTF, 
OTDA etc.), MA DOR, TX (TEA/TWC/HHSC/DFPS/CPA/TDLR/TPWD/RRC/DART/City 
of Plano), NC, SC  and major private clients like JPM Chase, Cigna, Chubb 
Insurance, BCBS/Health Now/HCSC, Atlas Air, Honda, First Tennessee Bank, eBay, 
SunTrust Bank, NetJets, Travel Guard/AIG, Genworth Financials, etc.  
 
We develop internal resources in specialized niche technologies and provide other 
vanilla technology resources from market. We have been providing IT staff covering 
breadth of technological landscape that includes Oracle, SAP, Microsoft, Java, IBM, 
Cloud, Mobile, Networking, Security etc. areas. With this experience, we are confident 
and committed to provide quality service to the state of KS and its agencies at 
competitive rates. 
innoSoul, Inc. has been providing services requested in this solicitation to TX, NC, 
NY, SC, MI, MD, MN, etc. state agencies, other local governments, school districts 
and other private/public entities. 
2.2 Personnel 
The following team is in place to service the state contract:  
Name Education Role IT 
Experience 
Title Similar Clients Managed Government 
Experience 
Rashi 
Shamshabad 
BS Contract 
Manager 
20 years President NC SC MD WA MN NY KS 
FL MS UT PA VA CA 
20 years 
Shashi Kanth BS 
MS 
Account 
Manager 
18 years Manager PA VA NY MN MD CT MA 15 years 
 
Rashi Shamshabad – Account/Contract Manager 
Our president, Ms. Rashi will be the customer relationship contact for this contract and act as 
Account/Contract Manager with ultimate decision power. Ms. Rashi offers around 20 years of 
experience in the computer industry including 17 years in the specialized areas of Human Resources 
Development and Marketing for government agencies. She is an experienced manager and people 
person to implement Business Solutions.  She is known as a leader around many facets of Business 
Circles. From a strong family business background and working as a Marketing Executive for various 
companies, Rashi was exposed to customer service excellence and began providing solutions with 
confidence.    She manages similar contracts for innoSoul, Inc. with various state agencies: NC SC MD WA 
MN NY KS FL MS UT PA VA CA and some smaller government agencies like Miami Dade county public 
schools. 
Focus: 
Ms. Rashi provides real life experience in providing Business Solutions to add value to her clients.  She 
focuses on reducing developmental cost through efficient outsourcing.  Her soft skills are keys in her 
efforts to reproduce herself within client’s resources pool.  For years she has led projects through the 
full life cycle and support perspectives.  Ms. Rashi works to enable clients to become self-sufficient in 
the use of technology solutions.  
 
 Page 3 of 58 
 
Industry Knowledge: 
As a Business Specialist, Ms. Rashi’s skills allowed her to travel across Industries and countries that 
include India, Singapore, China, Europe, Malaysia and the United States.  During her experience in 
Singapore, she has participated in various business meets. She actively participates in government and 
Woman organization conferences and exhibitions to interact with peers and clients. She recently 
completed a business management course from Dartmouth College.  
Technical Expertise: 
Ms. Rashi has led many initiatives that involved a variety of government clients.  Among the many such 
projects, Ms. Rashi has hands on experience in dealing with partners and negotiating effectively.  She is 
a well-known negotiator when it comes to finalizing deals. She is also very proficient at using business 
productivity applications like Microsoft Office and internet tools that include social networking sites.  
Recognition: 
Services provided by Ms. Rashi have consistently met and exceeded the expectations of her clients. She 
has received numerous recognition and appreciations for outstanding performance in the IT and 
outsourcing field. She was an active member of Woman Business Enterprise Council (WBENC).  
Leadership: 
Ms. Rashi has been performing in leadership roles for more than a decade.  In addition to leading 
multiple teams of technical professionals, she has been a leader in the application of soft skills and in 
managing the organizational changes necessary to get results. Currently, she leads innoSoul, Inc. at the 
difficult economic conditions prevailed all over the world. She also involves with local social and 
technical groups in a leadership role.  
 
Management Skills and Qualities: 
Strong project management and team leadership abilities. 
Focused on client, team, and overall business success. 
Solid track record of goal-focused and value-add solutions. 
Excellent decision-making, problem analysis, and presentation skills. 
Outstanding multi-tasking ability, combining client and project tasks, managerial 
activities and business development efforts. Exceptional communication and 
relationship building skills. 
Miscellaneous:  
Microsoft Office  
Microsoft Project 
Lotus 
Notes/QuickPlace 
 
 
Education and Training: 
Bachelor of Science (BS) in Commerce and Computers from Osmania University, India 
M/WBE Training from Dartmouth College, Hanover NH  
Certification course in Microsoft Technologies from Aptech, India 
Various Human Resources and Marketing training sessions 
Various conferences and seminars in HR and Marketing 
 
Shashi Kanth – Account Manager 
Mr. Shashi Kanth, Manager at innoSoul, Inc. will be the Account Manager to be in place for the duration 
of the contract. He will be the single point of contact to the client Contract Manager, and will assume 
responsibility for the coordination of all contract issues under this contract. He will meet with the client 
Contract Manager and/or others necessary to resolve any conflicts, disagreements, or other contract 
issues. Mr. Shashi Kanth offers around 18 years of experience in the computer industry including more 
than 13 years in managing government projects for various state agencies. He also manages private 
client accounts Deloitte and IBM for innoSoul, Inc. 
Experience Summary: 
 
 Page 4 of 58 
 
Mr. Shashi Kanth offers around 18 years of experience in the computer industry including 13 years in the 
specialized areas of Services Oriented Architecture (SOA), Enterprise Applications Integration (EAI) and 
Business Process Management (BPM) for public sector clients (mostly state agencies).  He recently rolled 
off services engagement for multiple State agencies that required heavy SOA integration. 
Focus: 
Mr. Shashi Kanth provides real life experience in providing Business Integration solutions to add value to 
his clients.  He focuses on reducing developmental cost through the design and building of reusable 
integration components and artifacts.  His soft consultant skills are keys in his efforts to reproduce 
himself within client’s technical resources poll.  For years he has led projects through the design, 
development, testing, deployment, rollout, documentation, training and support perspectives.  
Industry Knowledge: 
As a Business Specialist, Mr. Shashi Kanth’s skills allowed him to travel across Industries and Lines of 
Businesses that includes Government, Banking, Insurance, Manufacturing and Financial Services 
Industry.  During his experience at IBM he has taught technical training sessions to various clients. 
Technical Expertise: 
Mr. Shashi Kanth has led many large-scale Integration projects that involved a variety of services 
oriented back end systems.  Among the many packaged application systems, Mr. Shashi Kanth has hands 
on experience in Integrating SAP and Oracle ERP Applications.  He is also an experienced in most RDBMS 
systems like Oracle, MS SQL Server, IBM DB2 etc.  He is a well-known WebSphere Business Integration 
Architect with exposure to various IBM WebSphere family products 
(WAS/WPS/ESB/MB/Portal/MQ/WF/WSRR/Modeler/Monitor/DataPower etc.). 
Consulting Skills: 
Mr. Shashi Kanth is an experienced consultant for various government agencies. Because of his soft 
skills, technical expertise, experience and vision around the Business Integration space, he is typically 
engaged at the root of most projects.  He is a team player and is capable of working as either a leader or 
a follower.  However, in most cases, you will find Mr. Shashi Kanth wearing a variety of hats to meet 
client needs and requirements. 
Recognition: 
Services provided by Mr. Shashi Kanth have consistently met and exceeded the expectations of his 
clients. He has received numerous recognition and awards for outstanding performance in the IT and 
Business Integration field.  
Leadership: 
Mr. Shashi Kanth has performed in leadership roles for more than 13 years.  In addition to leading 
multiple teams of technical professionals, he has been a leader in the application of new technology and 
in managing the organizational changes necessary to get results.  
Management Skills and Qualities: 
Strong project management and team leadership abilities. 
Focused on client, team, and overall business success. 
Solid track record of goal-focused and value-add solutions. 
Excellent decision-making, problem analysis, and presentation skills. 
Outstanding multi-tasking ability, combining client and project tasks, managerial activities and business 
development efforts. 
Ability to combine leading-edge technologies with proven approaches for project deployment in 
creating custom methodologies for client success. 
Exceptional communication and relationship building skills. 
 
 Page 5 of 58 
 
2.3 Organization Structure 
innoSoul is envisaging the following organizational structure to fulfill the contract 
arising out of this Solicitation. Our President will be the account executive to make 
any and all decisions related to the account. Day to day interactions and operational 
responsibility will be with our President who has rich experience working and 
managing government clients (more specifically state agencies in US). Shashi 
Kanth will be managing the internal team delivering the contract obligations. Other 
staff members will ensure various requirements of the contract are fulfilled and 
quality resources are submitted for state review.  
 
With a startup culture, innoSoul, Inc. comprises of a flat organizational structure 
with the president supervising whole operations and all the other employees helping 
with the organizational activities. The team is cross-functional and each member 
handles multiple responsibilities in addition to the primary responsibility. It helps 
the organization respond to any emergencies.  
2.4 Financials  
We are proving valuable to government sector customers by providing timely and 
quality resources. Another major factor in our growing success with government 
clientele is our pricing: we are able to source quality resources in-house and 
established subcontractor channels at affordable prices and passing the benefits to 
our customers. InnoSoul has improved its internal processes since 2003 by 
deploying latest tools and technologies in consulting process.  
3 Qualifications 
innoSoul is planning to reach out to all state’s customers with our offerings. We 
intend to utilize technology in reaching out to vast customer base that will be in 
reach through the contract from this Solicitation. Our responsive Web 2.0 website 
has current contract details and will be updated with our new contract information 
along with rate card in addition to our other service offerings as seen below: 
 
Contract Manager 
(Rashi Shamshabad, 
President-innoSoul)
Shashi Kanth
Account Manager
Recruiters
HR Manager
HR Executives
Accounts 
Manager
Accounting 
Executives
Administrative 
Assistant Finance Manager
 
 Page 6 of 58 
 
 
 
innoSoul, Inc. with its technology edge combined with quality resources can deliver 
an efficient workforce to KS customers. With our efficient business process of 
sourcing candidates, and cost advantage we anticipate most of our marketing and 
support efforts will lead to a successful business relationship with the state of 
Texas. The efficiencies at each stage of the process will result in savings all along 
the supply chain. Technology edge and experience of innoSoul will help convert 
process improvements and efficiencies into cost savings and valuable quality 
resources for the end customer. 
 
innoSoul, Inc. will provide quality sales, order processing and support for all state’s 
customers using our in-house methodologies and systems evolved over last two 
decades. We maintain an account manager who will be in-charge for all 
communication with the state. The account manager is available all the time 
through emails, phones and in-person when required. The response time for 
email/phone call is within 8 business hours and personal meeting within one 
business day. 
 
We have satellite offices in various cities that we have been leveraging to provide 
consulting services to various states. We also have partners and subcontractors in 
various locations across the United States. We use our email group for partners that 
reach close to 2750 partners in the country. We share our demands with all 
partners automatically by email immediately after we receive from our clients. We 
utilize our partners’ expertise and experience in serving the state.  
 

 
 Page 7 of 58 
 
 
 
Being a woman owned organization; we encourage other woman/minority owned 
organizations to work with us in fulfilling demands arising from various clients.  
4 Experience  
Since 2003, with experience in IT consulting, consulting and innovation, innoSoul 
understands how to assess customer needs, from both a business and technological 
perspective. innoSoul offers an array of services through its Cost Optimization 
practices that will help customers assess, optimize, and consolidate their IT 
resources. Customers will then be able to make the move through a realistic 
assessment to see how our consulting can meet their requirements for today, 
tomorrow, and beyond. innoSoul resources have extensive experience, hold 
advanced degrees and have most of the industry standard certifications by 
Microsoft, Cisco, Oracle, PMI etc.  
 
innoSoul is working with various organizations in private and public sector.  It offers 
necessary resources and expertise to augment client IT consulting needs. Some of 
innoSoul's current and past IT Consulting/Consulting contracts are:  
 
1. CA: DEPARTMENT OF GENERAL SERVICES PROCUREMENT DIVISION  
2. FL: Florida State: Miami-Dade County Bid 071-LL04, Information Technology Services 
3. NC: Master Contract for the State of North Carolina 
4. MI: State of Michigan IT Staff Augmentation Contract  
5. MN: IT Professional Technical Services Master Contract Program (MCP) - 902TS 
6. MS: State of Mississippi General RFP – Information Systems Consulting Services 
7. MT: Master Contract for IT Services Term Contract SPB06-1263B-17F  
8. NY: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY TEMPORARY PERSONAL SERVICES BACKDROP CONTRACT  
9.   NY Project based IT Consulting Services  
10. OK: University of OK Annual IT Consulting and Consulting Services 
11. PA: State of Pennsylvania Vendor Management System (VMS) by Compaid, Inc. 
12. SC: Master Contract for the State of South Carolina 

 
 Page 8 of 58 
 
13. UT: Information Technology Consulting Services for DTS--DWS 
14. VA: VA IT Contingent Labor contract vendor 
15. WA: Washington State Department of Enterprise Services (DES) Information Technology: 
Professional Services  
16. MD: MHBE Information Technology: IDIQ Consulting & Technical Contract 
5 Timeline 
We follow internal Service Level Agreements (SLAs) for our recruitment process to 
better serve our clients. We strive to meet below timelines and review performance 
to improve the same: 
 
innoSoul’s interaction with the customer is limited to what is agreed upon in the 
contract. Our preferred mode of communication is either emails or phone calls. We 
make sure that the staff that is authorized to discuss issues with the client is the 
only one contacting with required information. Wherever required, we participate in 
dialogue and/or training required to enhance our delivery and customer 
satisfaction.  
 
innoSoul believes in continuous improvement of our service levels and customer 
satisfaction. It is not possible to improve something that is not measured. We 
believe in maintaining all required status reports on our work with each customer 
and review them periodically. It helps in understanding the level of service we are 
providing to our customers and at the same time helps improve our performance. 
 
We have been reporting to state agencies on our contracts. We will continue to 
communicate promptly on various recruitment stages to various agencies as 
outlined below:  
- Response to email from client: within 8 business hours 
- Response to phone calls from client: within 8 business hours 
- Response to interview requests: within 8 business hours 
- Monthly report to the state: by 10th of every month 
 
On-boarding times; 
Account managers interact with client representatives for interviews and 
onboarding. The client interaction is limited to authorized users and all accepted 
protocols are used to maintain confidentiality and integrity of the contract. We have 
been providing following onboarding times to various state agencies on our current 
contracts. We will continue to provide similar SLAs promptly on various on-boarding 
stages to various agencies as outlined below:  
- Scheduling interviews: 8 business hours 
- Background verification initiation: 8 business hours 
- Coordinating with the candidate for documents/signatures: 2 business days  
- Signing PO or any other documents by vendor: 8 business hours 
- Overall on-boarding process time: 5-10 business days (including background 
verification) 
Order Tracking communications  
 
 Page 9 of 58 
 
innoSoul, Inc. believes in timely invoicing along with signed timesheets from the 
customer. We use cloud-based QuickBooks invoicing system from Intuit. We are an 
authorized reseller of QuickBooks for Intuit along with service provider for various 
clients. In the process, we honed in-house expertise in invoicing and accounting. 
Our normal payment terms are Net30 but we can work with various clients on their 
convenient terms. Our invoices are sent to the customer by email at the end of 
each month with a PDF attachment of invoice, timesheets in addition to brief details 
of invoice in the email. Our SLA for order tracking is to invoice the client within 5 
business days after the end of the month.  
Follow-up process and timeline. 
innoSoul believes in continuous monitoring of resources working on client 
assignment through periodic interventions. The process looks for any issues or 
scope for issues and tries to address them immediately through counseling. Our 
staff is experienced in identifying and resolving any issues. innoSoul keeps a 
database of quality resources and it has been enhanced year after year. In an 
adverse situation where a candidate fails to perform as per the customer’s 
expectations and need to leave the project for reasons out of our control, the 
candidate is replaced with no disruption in service. Our database of quality 
candidates comes in handy in a quick replacement in adverse situations like this. 
We will provide 2-week guarantee of our services and provide equivalent training or 
knowledge transfer to client when we have to replace a candidate for performance 
issue. We have been providing following response times to various state agencies 
for many years on our current contracts. We will continue to provide similar SLAs 
promptly to various agencies as outlined below:  
- Response to email from client: within 8 business hours 
- Response to phone calls from client: within 8 business hours 
- Replacement of consultant: two weeks 
6 Methodology  
The Account Manager will coordinate and control various activities involved in 
contract management and client fulfillment process. innoSoul uses standard based 
systems approach where each process/activity is predefined and reviewed for 
improvement periodically. The following process is used by innoSoul staff to fulfill 
basic tasks related to the contract through this Solicitation. Candidates are sourced 
and on boarded at client location with systematic step-by-step approach outlined 
below:  
 
 Page 10 of 58 
 
 
 
InnoSoul uses new technologies and tools to make it an efficient and effective process. We utilize 
internet-based technologies to improve the process and decrease the time it takes to implement the 
process. We define SLAs for each step and review them for adherence. We use various technologies in 
automating our recruitment process as shown in below diagram. We also use Virtual Walk-ins, Social 
Hiring, User Groups administration, Referrals and ATS – Applicant Tracking System to track the process. 
We will manage the client with the following principles:  
 
 
 
Service Delivery 
innoSoul has proven service delivery model in place where the staff follows 
predefined processes in delivering results to customers. The process is well 
documented and the staff is trained to follow the instructions to achieve best 
results. The system helps in delivering quality resources to the customer.  
 
Quality Assurance 

 
 Page 11 of 58 
 
The candidate selection process is streamlined over the years and candidates are 
reviewed for their past performance. In addition, candidates are verified for their 
past work performed by background checks. This ensures quality resources are 
sourced every time.  
 
Sales Management 
innoSoul depends on in-house staff for core needs of various clients. We depend on 
our vast sub-contractor network to fill positions that can’t be fulfilled from in-house 
resources. The duty of coordinating with the subcontractors during the process of 
implementation of the project is done by our contract manager. Our contract 
manager and his staff are in constant touch with the sub-contractors and check 
with them to see if they have any problems in servicing our clients and try to 
resolve to the best of their efforts. Once a year our contract department arranges 
an informal gathering before the holiday season for all of our sub-contractors. If the 
temporary IT consultant is through a sub-contractor, we make sure that the IT 
consultant is paid on time, as we emphasize it in our sub-contractor agreement in 
which the sub-contractor agrees to pay the consultant by 5th of every month if he 
pays his employees once every month or by 5th and 20th of every month if he pays 
them twice a month. If our sub-contractor does not adhere to the contract and pays 
his employee irregularly or does not pay at all, InnoSoul, Inc. has the right through 
the sub-contracting agreement to take the consultant on our pay roll and pay 
whatever money InnoSoul, Inc. owes to the sub-contractor directly to the IT 
consultant to offset the money owed to him by the sub-contractor. 
 
As we are currently serving various state agencies through existing contracts, we 
have developed a network of sub-contractors with various specializations. We share 
our requirements from state agencies on our website at www.innosoul.com/hotjobs 
and all subcontractors get the job details automatically in their email inboxes. This 
enables us to reduce the cycle time and improves efficiency of bringing candidates 
to the state agency. The pool of sub-contractors is periodically monitored for SLAs 
and changes are made as needed that helps improved fulfillment. We also have a 
mailing list of sub-contractors, technology wise, and our recruiters circulate new 
requirements with those vendors as soon as the requirement is notified by the 
client. Jobs are also posted on social media (Facebook/LinkedIn/Twitter etc.) 
without manual intervention using new technologies to reach out to target vendors 
quickly. All these plans help innoSoul to be ahead of others in sourcing qualified 
resources for state needs. 
 
 
 
Order Processing  
innoSoul uses cloud-based technologies for its clients and also for its own internal 
use. We use Web 2.0 based web technologies to manage client requirements and 
also for order processing. Once a requirement is received and till it is fulfilled, we 
use in-house tools and technologies to make sure the customer is services 
efficiently and effectively. We use WordPress Content Management System (CMS) 
to capture customer requirements correctly and distributed to internal staff and 
external partners. We follow 5-minute SLA to make sure the requirement is 
 
 Page 12 of 58 
 
distributed to all intended users (internal/external). The job is posted on our 
website by emailing to a specific email address (post-by-email automation feature 
of WordPress CMS) without actually going to the website. An email that includes all 
job details is sent that posts jobs on our website and also on LinkedIn, Facebook, 
Twitter etc. at the same time without separate effort. All subscribing partners will 
also receive the same job details instantly in their email inbox. We also post the job 
in various job portals (Dice, Monster. CareerBuilder, TechFetch, etc.). We use 
Ceipal Applicant Tracking System (ATS) and that helps us further syndicate our jobs 
across multiple free job portals.  
 
Internal staff uses the collaborative online tool known as “Slack” to discuss and 
work on requirements. Slack also gets an auto notification for each new job posting 
and all users get to know details by information push in their slack channel. 
Candidates can apply from any of the external channels where our job is posted. 
Internal recruiters source candidates from various job portals and also work with 
applications received through job portal applications. Our standard recruitment 
process is followed to source, match and select candidates for our customers. Each 
step of the way, new technologies and tools are used to make the process more 
efficient and less prone to errors with self-healing software techniques.  
 
Account managers interact with client representatives for interviews and 
onboarding. Once a candidate is placed, invoicing and timesheet collection process 
is triggered which also uses cloud-based technologies to make the process more 
efficient. We use QuickBooks accounting software to invoice, track candidate hours 
and billing. The client interaction is limited to authorized users and all accepted 
protocols are used to maintain confidentiality and integrity of the contract.  
 
innoSoul, Inc. believes in timely invoicing along with signed timesheets from the 
customer. We use cloud-based QuickBooks invoicing system from Intuit. We are an 
authorized reseller of QuickBooks for Intuit along with service provider for various 
clients that resulted in in-house expertise in invoicing and accounting. Our normal 
payment terms are Net30 but we can work with various clients on their convenient 
terms. Our invoices are sent to the customer by email at the end of each month 
with a PDF attachment of invoice in addition to brief details of invoice in the email. 
 
Problem Management 
innoSoul believes in continuous monitoring of resources working on client 
assignment through periodic interventions. The process looks for any issues or 
scope for issues and tries to address them immediately through counseling. Our 
staff is experienced in identifying and resolving any issues.  
 
Corrective Actions 
innoSoul keeps a database of quality resources and it has been enhanced year after 
year. In an adverse situation where a candidate fails to perform as per the 
customer’s expectations and need to leave the project for reasons out of our 
control, the candidate is replaced with no disruption in service. Our database of 
quality candidates comes in handy in a quick replacement in adverse situations like 
this. We will provide 2-week guarantee of our services and provide equivalent 
 
 Page 13 of 58 
 
training or knowledge transfer to client when we have to replace a candidate for 
performance issue.  
 
Customer Interaction 
innoSoul’s interaction with the customer is limited to what is agreed upon in the 
contract. Our preferred mode of communication is either emails or phone calls. We 
make sure that the staff that is authorized to discuss issues with the client is the 
only one contacting with required information. Wherever required, we participate in 
dialogue and/or training required to enhance our delivery and customer 
satisfaction.  
 
Status Reporting  
innoSoul believes in continuous improvement of our service levels and customer 
satisfaction. It is not possible to improve something that is not measured. We 
believe in maintaining all required status reports on our work with each customer 
and review them periodically. This helps in understanding the level of service we 
are providing to our customers and at the same time helps improve our 
performance. 
 
Training Plan 
Our employees are sent for periodic training programs and also reimbursed fee in 
full for any successful professional certifications. Our senior employees are 
reimbursed in kind for mentoring our junior employees/ sub-contractor consultants. 
innoSoul also provides incentives like profit sharing, bonus, training/certification 
reimbursement etc. that makes our people to stay with us longer.  
 
Confidentiality  
innoSoul has a written policy for confidentiality, information security, non-
discrimination, code of conduct, code of ethics, employee safety, etc. Our recruiting 
staff working in-house and technical staff deployed on client sites are required to 
review and sign such documents that protects client confidential information. We 
also maintain high level of insurance coverage for unforeseen events that will 
safeguard us and our clients. We conduct periodic sessions and/or communicate 
about our policies and policy changes that influence client confidentiality. In more 
than 17 years of service to various government agencies we did not have a single 
incident of breach of confidentiality.  
7 References 
 
References:  
Name of Your Firm: INNOSOUL, INC. 
Name of Client: Minnesota IT Services | Partners in Performance with DHS, DCT, 
DCYF & MNsure 
Name of Client Contact Person: Furhath Arnob, Director | Shared Services 
Client’s Phone Number: 651-431-3176 (Furhath.Arnob@state.mn.us) 
Date or period of project/service: 05/15/2023 to 05/14/2026 
 
 Page 14 of 58 
 
Description of project/services rendered: 
• Analyze, design, develop and implement complete life cycle of application development 
environment to support business applications. 
• Develop IBM WebSphere Transformation Extender (WTX) maps, typetrees. 
• Utilize various Business Integration and Cloud computin g tools like: WebSphere Process Server 
(WPS), WebSphere Application Server, WebSphere Service Registry and Repository, WebSphere 
Integration Developer, WebSphere Business Modeler, WebSphere Business Monitor, Rational 
ClearCase, Rational ClearQuest, IBM DB2 , Java, J2EE, SugarCRM, OrangeHRM, JBPM, and 
OpenSource Technologies. 
• Participate in multiple phases of project life cycle development including business process analysis 
and requirements gathering, software design, development, testing, supporting modific ations and 
enhancements to the database and program based on user specifications. 
• Provide technical evaluation estimates on technology initiatives. 
• Architect SCA components (Business Processes, Human Tasks, Business Rules, and Selectors) and 
J2EE services. 
• Develop performance tuning techniques both on the WebSphere Process Server Infrastructure and 
IBM/WebSphere Integration Developer development workbench. 
• Provide technical support and conduct user acceptance testing. 
• Create training manuals and provide end user training. 
 
Name of Your Firm: INNOSOUL, INC. 
Name of Client: Minnesota IT Services | Partners in Performance with DHS, DCT, 
DCYF & MNsure 
Name of Client Contact Person: Karla Spencer-George  
Client’s Phone Number: 651.238.5268  | Karla.Spencer-George@state.mn.us 
Date or period of project/service: 05/15/2023 to 05/14/2026 
Description of project/services rendered: 
• Analyze, design, develop and implement complete life cycle of application development 
environment to support business applications. 
• Develop IBM WebSphere Transformation Extender (WTX) maps, typetrees. 
• Utilize various Business Integration and Cloud computing tools like: WebSphere Process Server 
(WPS), WebSphere Application Server, WebSphere Service Registry and Repository, WebSphere 
Integration Developer, WebSphere Business Modeler, WebSphere Business Mo nitor, Rational 
ClearCase, Rational ClearQuest, IBM DB2, Java, J2EE, SugarCRM, OrangeHRM, JBPM, and 
OpenSource Technologies. 
• Participate in multiple phases of project life cycle development including business process analysis 
and requirements gathering, so ftware design, development, testing, supporting modifications and 
enhancements to the database and program based on user specifications. 
• Provide technical evaluation estimates on technology initiatives. 
• Architect SCA components (Business Processes, Human Tasks, Business Rules, and Selectors) and 
J2EE services.  
• Develop performance tuning techniques both on the WebSphere Process Server Infrastructure and 
IBM/WebSphere Integration Developer development workbench. 
• Provide technical support and conduct user acceptance testing. 
• Create training manuals and provide end user training. 
 
 Page 15 of 58 
 
 
Name of Your Firm: INNOSOUL, INC. 
Name of Client: Minnesota IT Services | Partners in Performance with DHS, DCT, 
DCYF & MNsure 
Name of Client Contact Person: Deb Ferreira, MAS Blue  Supervisor | Java Application 
Development Division 
Client’s Phone Number: 952-463-5603, Deb.Ferreira@state.mn.us 
Date or period of project/service: 1/1/25 - 12/31/2027 
Description of project/services rendered: 
• Install, configure, support and maintain IBM middleware products including, but not 
• limited to: WebSphere Application Server Network Deploy, IBM Enterprise Service Bus, 
• IBM HTTP Server, IBM Business Process Manager, WebSphere Transformation 
• Extender, MQSeries, Oracle Web Logic Server and IBM Integration Bus. 
• Provide experienced support and consultation for all of the following software packages: 
• Engagepoint Audit, Engagepoint Notify, Engagepoint Content, Activevos, Connecture, 
• Get Insured and Curam. 
• Provide support and consultation for custom-developed state software solutions that 
• integrate between COTS and legacy systems or otherwise support the METS systems 
• and processes. 
• Configuring and integrating Applications with Oracle IAM (Identity and Access 
• Management) for Single Sign-on (SSO). 
 
 
Contact Person Company Name & Address Period Performed/status Phone Number(s) 
Barb Geiger  Department of Human Services, MN  Nov 17 – current / running on time 651-431-2117  
 Phase 1: Prepare for installation 
 Phase 2: Install primary Oracle Enterprise Management (OEM) Service 
 Phase 3: Implement & document OEM security 
 Phase 4: Configure Oracle Resource Management 
 Phase 5: Final validation of OEM functionality 
 
Contact Person Company Name & Address Period Performed/status Phone Number(s) 
Bernie Finne  Department of Human Services, MN  Dec 16 – current / running on time 651-431-4065 
A. Download/upload   code   updates   from/to   the   MN-DHS   code   repository   (SVN   - Subversion). 
B.          Develop   the   WTX/WPS   application   code   and   integrate   to   business   rules   and specifications. 
C.          Assist in the identification and correction of software defects and inefficiencies. D.          Produce and run test 
scripts to ensure deployments are working. E. Work with testers and subject matter experts to identify code and 
deployment issues. F. Utilize log entries to identify problem areas. 
G.          Identify and recommend specific code changes to MN-DHS staff. 
Contact Person Company Name & Address Period Performed Phone Number(s) 
Karla Spencer  MN Dept of Human Services, 540 Cedar St, St. Paul MN  2020 – present 651.238.5268 
innoSoul, Inc. implemented IBM integration project: Architectural design and training for WPS/WESB applications with 
Informix under The IT Professional Technical Services Master Contract Program (MCP) - 902TS. Successfully running 
 
 Page 16 of 58 
 
 
 
8 General Company Information. 
Evidence of Customer Satisfaction 
innoSoul, Inc. has consistently maintained high client satisfaction rates through its 
structured processes, quality assurance measures, and responsive customer interaction 
policies. Key performance highlights include: 
 Retention Rate: Over the past three years, innoSoul’s retention rate has exceeded 90%, 
reflecting the reliability and effectiveness of placements in both public and private sectors. 
 Survey & References:  The company actively maintains detai led customer feedback 
surveys and references. This includes performance reviews gathered periodically to assess 
alignment with project goals and client expectations. For example:  
o Reference contacts are regularly updated, with feedback mechanisms establish ed 
to evaluate satisfaction levels. 
o These references are used to monitor the quality of resources provided, ensuring 
proactive adjustments where needed. 
 Vendor Performance Ratings:  innoSoul employs an internal performance monitoring 
system that reviews con sultant contributions and evaluates them based on technical 
expertise, productivity, and adaptability. This system ensures that vendor performance is 
consistently in line with client requirements. 
Approach Example: 
 Highlight how innoSoul’s  feedback loops and proactive measures contribute to high 
customer satisfaction. For example:  
o Feedback is consistently used to refine sourcing methodologies and onboarding 
processes. 
o Performance ratings help identify gaps early, enabling tailored solutions. 
9 Company History 
Founded in 2003 in Nevada, innoSoul, Inc. has become a leading provider of IT consulting and consulting 
services for both the public and private sectors. Over the years, the company has gained expertise in the 
entire IT consulting life cycle, delivering end-to-end solutions with a focus on planning, account 
management, and change management.  
 
innoSoul has successfully served various government agencies, including state agencies across New 
York, Texas, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Minnesota. The company’s client portfolio also includes 
well-known private entities like JPM Chase, Cigna, Honda, and eBay. Its offerings span a wide 
technological landscape, including Oracle, SAP, Java, Cloud, and Networking solutions.  
 
As an IBM Partner specializing in Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA), innoSoul has built a strong 
reputation for addressing client needs through innovative practices, cost optimization, and highly skilled 
resources. With a focus on sustainability, agility, and client satisfaction, innoSoul has firmly established 
itself as a trusted partner in the industry. 
 
 
 Page 17 of 58 
 
10 Company’s Growth 
 
1. Revenue and Business Expansion: 
o innoSoul, Inc. has experienced steady growth in revenue through increased client 
acquisitions across both public and private sectors. (around 10% each year). 
o Expansion into additional state contracts, such as Texas, Michigan, North Carolina, 
and South Carolina, has significantly bolstered the company’s footprint. 
2. Client Base and Engagements: 
o Over the past three years, in noSoul successfully secured and delivered on major 
projects with high-profile clients, including government agencies like NY, TX, and 
MN. 
o Retention of long -term clients ( 100% retention rate) has contributed to repeat 
business and referrals, sustaining revenue growth. 
3. Workforce Scaling: 
o The internal team has grown by more than 25%, reflecting the company's ability to 
onboard skilled professionals and meet increasing client demands. 
o Enhanced recruiter networks and investments in automation tools like CEIPAL 
ATS have improved efficiency in sourcing and deploying high-quality resources. 
4. Technological Advancements: 
o Continued investments in IT infrastructure and recruitment technologies (e.g., 
automated job postings, social hiring) have optimized operations, reduc ing 
placement times by up to 30%. 
5. Industry Recognition: 
o innoSoul's consistent delivery of quality services has earned accolades and 
recognition from several state agencies and private sector entities, showcasing the 
company's growing reputation and credibility. 
 
1. What separates your company from others and elaborate on what makes your 
company well suited to excel in this portfolio should a contract be awarded? 
 
11 Company Unique Differentiators  
1. Proven Track Record 
o innoSoul has consistently delivered high -quality IT consulting solutions since its 
founding in 2003. The company’s extensive experience with state agencies across 
the U.S., including NY, TX, NC, SC, and MN, showcases its reliability and 
expertise in the public sector. 
o With over 90% retention rates and zero candidate backouts in the last three years, 
innoSoul guarantees stability and seamless integration of resources. 
2. Technological Edge 
o Utilization of innovative recruitment tools such as CEIPAL Applicant Tracking 
System (ATS) ensures efficiency in matching candidates to client requirements. 
 
 Page 18 of 58 
 
o Automation features like virtual walk-ins, social hiring, and job syndication across 
platforms enable faster sourcing and wider reach to qualified professionals. 
3. Commitment to Quality and Compliance 
o Robust screening processes include competency -based assessments, multi -level 
interviews, background checks, and certifications validation. 
o Adherence to regulatory standards like ISO 2700X and NIST ensures secure and 
reliable service delivery. 
4. Scalability and Flexibility 
o A strong network of subcontractors and satellite offices enables innoSoul to handle 
large-scale consulting needs while tailoring solutions to client -specific 
requirements. 
o The company’s lean organizational structure ensur es quick decision -making and 
adaptability to project demands. 
5. Client-Centric Approach 
o Proactive communication channels, real-time reporting, and transparent processes 
align innoSoul’s services with client objectives. 
o Dedicated Account Managers and Service Level Agreements (SLAs) ensure 
prompt response times and effective conflict resolution. 
6. Recognition and Partnerships 
o Long-standing partnerships with IBM and numerous accolades underscore 
innoSoul’s leadership in IT consulting and consulting. 
o Collaboration with other woman/minority -owned organizations reflects its 
commitment to diversity and community engagement. 
 
11.1 Why innoSoul Will Excel in This Portfolio  
 Strategic Fit: innoSoul’s experience in providing IT consulting solutions for state agencies 
mirrors the requirements of the contract, ensuring alignment with project goals and 
seamless execution. 
 Efficiency: Streamlined processes and automation minimize onboarding times, reduce 
costs, and ensure timely resource delivery. 
 Risk Management:  Proactive monitoring, issue mitigation, and quick replacement 
guarantees ensure uninterrupted service. 
 Continuous Improvement:  Lessons learned from previous engagements are 
systematically applied to improve client outcomes and operational efficiency. 
 
 
Unique Differences in Experience, Skills, and Qualifications 
1. Extensive Public Sector Expertise:  
o innoSoul Inc. has over two decades of experience supporting procurement 
lifecycle functions for state and local agencies, including solicitation 
development, contract closeout, vendor performance evaluations, and compliance 
management. 
 
 Page 19 of 58 
 
o Past engagements with agencies like NY, TX, and NC involved specialized 
procurement subject matter experts ensuring alignment with State and Federal 
regulations. 
2. Methodology for Procurement Efficiency:  
o Proven systems and workflows streamline market research, cost analysis, and 
vendor selection processes. 
o Emphasis on risk mitigation strategies ensures procurement is smooth and 
compliant throughout the lifecycle. 
3. Technical Tools and Systems:  
o Leveraging tools such as CEIPAL ATS for managing procurement processes 
efficiently. 
o Integration of real-time reporting capabilities and robust evaluation frameworks. 
 
4. Specialized IT Knowledge:  
o innoSoul’s IT consultants hold advanced degrees and certifications in key 
technologies such as Oracle, SAP, Microsoft, Java, and Cloud Computing. 
o The company has successfully implemented IT strategy solutions across diverse 
platforms and verticals, including government programs, healthcare, and financial 
services. 
5. Innovative Approaches:  
o Utilization of modern automation and collaboration tools like Slack and CEIPAL 
ensures efficient communication and resource allocation. 
o Expertise in IT advisory methodologies that enable clients to optimize systems 
and achieve operational efficiency. 
6. Tailored Consulting Solutions:  
o Track record of delivering strategic IT roadmaps tailored to client environments. 
o Ensuring cost-effective, secure, and scalable IT solutions. 
 
11.2 Integrated Strengths Across Both Categories:  
 Robust quality assurance protocols, including background checks and skills verification, 
apply to all services provided. 
 Proven ability to deliver seamless integration of IT and procurement expertise ensures 
continuity and excellence across both categories. 
 
12 Company Capabilities 
 
1. Market Research and Analysis   
o Example: In collaboration with the State of Minnesota, innoSoul conducted in-depth 
market research for IT consulting and procurement. This included supplier evaluations, 
trend analysis, and cost estimation to align with state budget constraints. 
2. Solicitation Development: 
o Example: For the Texas Education Agency, innoSoul developed Requests for Proposals 
(RFPs), ensuring compliance with procurement regulations and delivering clear, concise 
solicitation documents tailored to agency requirements. 
 
 Page 20 of 58 
 
3. Proposal Evaluation: 
o Example: Assisted the New York State Division of Criminal Justice in assessing vendor 
proposals using a scoring matrix that evaluated financial, technical, and operational 
criteria to select optimal vendors. 
4. Vendor Contract Negotiation and Award: 
o Example: InnoSoul supported contract negotiation and vendor onboarding for North 
Carolina state agencies, aligning agreements with state procurement standards and 
operational goals. 
5. Contract Development and Administration: 
o Example: Managed multi-year contracts for IT services in South Carolina, ensuring 
compliance, tracking vendor performance, and addressing contract amendments. 
6. Vendor Performance Monitoring and Evaluation: 
o Example: Supported the State of Michigan by setting up frameworks to measure vendor 
KPIs through regular audits and customer feedback. 
7. Procurement Compliance Auditing: 
o Example: Conducted compliance audits for Mississippi’s procurement activities, 
providing detailed reports to ensure adherence to federal guidelines. 
8. Procurement Training and Education: 
o Example: Delivered workshops on procurement best practices for staff at various 
agencies in Utah, focusing on cost optimization and vendor evaluation. 
9. Procurement Closeout Procedures: 
o Example: Assisted the State of Virginia with vendor and contract closeout processes, 
ensuring all deliverables were met and proper documentation completed. 
10. Risk Assessment and Mitigation: 
o Example: Developed risk mitigation plans for South Carolina state agencies, minimizing 
disruptions during procurement cycles. 
11. Data Analytics and Reporting: 
o Example: Provided real-time reporting dashboards for North Carolina state agencies, 
enabling streamlined tracking of procurement activities. 
 
 
Customer/client name Department of Human Services, MN 
Government (Y/N) Y 
Customer Organization Size 7000+ employees 
Service Start Date/End Date 2020 – present 
Contract Amount $768750 
Reference name Karla Spencer-George 
Title Systems Supervisor 
Phone number 651.238.5268 
Mailing address 540 Cedar Street, Saint Paul, MN 
55155 Email Address Karla.Spencer-George@state.mn.us 
Service Description Data Analytics and Reporting services 
 
 
Customer/client name Paul Mitchell The School, FL 
Government (Y/N) N 
Customer Organization Size 100+ 
Service Start Date/End Date 2023-present 
 
 Page 21 of 58 
 
Contract Amount $100,000 
Reference name Giuseppe Veglio 
Title General Manager 
Phone number 518-370-4590 
 Mailing address 8000 W Broward Blvd #1101, 
Plantation, FL 33388 Email Address gveglio@schenectady.paulmitchell.ed
u Service Description Risk Assessment and mitigation 
services  
 
Examples of Work Performed: 
1. IT Strategy Development: 
o Example: Collaborated with the Minnesota Department of Human Services to design a 
strategic roadmap for integrating IBM WebSphere applications. 
2. Architectural Design and Implementation: 
o Example: Developed architectural frameworks for Michigan’s IT consulting needs, 
ensuring scalable solutions aligned with state priorities. 
3. System Optimization and Migration: 
o Example: Migrated the Texas Department of Education’s legacy systems to cloud-based 
environments, improving operational efficiency. 
4. Compliance and Security Advisory: 
o Example: Supported the State of Washington by ensuring IT systems adhered to NIST 
guidelines and ISO 2700X compliance standards. 
5. Vendor Evaluation and Selection: 
o Example: Conducted technical evaluations for California state agencies, ensuring 
vendors’ IT solutions met the highest quality standards. 
6. IT Process Improvement: 
o Example: Delivered process improvement strategies for Oracle ERP implementations 
across North Carolina agencies, reducing costs and enhancing functionality. 
 
Contact Person Company Name & Address Period Performed/status Phone Number(s) 
Barb Geiger  Department of Human Services, MN  Nov 17 – current / running on time 651-431-2117  
 Phase 1: Prepare for installation 
 Phase 2: Install primary Oracle Enterprise Management (OEM) Service 
 Phase 3: Implement & document OEM security 
 Phase 4: Configure Oracle Resource Management 
 Phase 5: Final validation of OEM functionality 
 
 
Contact Person Company Name & Address Period Performed/status Phone Number(s) 
Bernie Finne  Department of Human Services, MN  Dec 16 – current / running on time 651-431-4065 
Contact Person Company Name & Address Period Performed Phone Number(s) 
Joel W Hooker  MN Dept of Human Services, 540 Cedar St, St. Paul MN  Sep 2011 – Jan 2012 651-431-3230 
innoSoul, Inc. implemented IBM integration project: Architectural design and training for WPS/WESB applications with 
Informix under The IT Professional Technical Services Master Contract Program (MCP) - 902TS. Successfully completed 
 
 Page 22 of 58 
 
A. Download/upload   code   updates   from/to   the   MN-DHS   code   repository   (SVN   - Subversion). 
B.          Develop   the   WTX/WPS   application   code   and   integrate   to   business   rules   and specifications. 
C.          Assist in the identification and correction of software defects and inefficiencies. D.          Produce and run test 
scripts to ensure deployments are working. E. Work with testers and subject matter experts to identify code and 
deployment issues. F. Utilize log entries to identify problem areas. 
G.          Identify and recommend specific code changes to MN-DHS staff. 
 
 
Contact Person Company Name & Address Period Performed/status Phone Number(s) 
Andrew Kramer  WA DOL, 2424 Bristol Court SE, Olympia, 
Washington 98507 (DRIVERS project)  
Sep 2016 – Jun 2017  
Successfully completed  
(360) 664-6686 
 Facilitate and lead the analysis and documentation of functional and non-functional business requirements including: the 
preparation and confirmation of business rules; the analysis of current and proposed business processes, business models 
and requirements statements. Documenting requirements so they are understandable by business and technical experts. 
 Documenting scope, business requirements and system requirements for COTS products. 
 Perform gap analysis using business process diagrams, data models, and requirements. 
 Negotiating and bringing groups to consensus or resolution concerning areas of conflict or ambiguity. 
 Assembling information from a variety of sources to recognize business relevant connections and missing pieces. 
 Develop and execute complex test scripts. Manage scope as it pertains to areas of responsibility. Identify and document risks, 
opportunities and efficiencies related to assigned work. Manage time well to meet assigned milestones 
 
a. NC 
 Entity name: State of NC   
 Entity address: 79 TW Alexander Dr. Durham, NC 274709 
 Contract number/purchase order number assigned by the Entity: 
ITS-009440 
 Original Term of the Contract/purchase order: 2016-2024 
 Contract/purchase order Start Date: Mar-2016 
 Duration of each contract/purchase order (time  to complete the 
work): 8 years 
 Total or approximate dollar amount contracted or received: $12+ 
million 
 The number of Staff assigned for the Contract or purchase order: 
45  
 Type of tasks performed by assigned Staff: BA/QA/PM/Software 
Developer  
 Stipulate if you were the primary contractor or hired as a 
subcontractor by the prime and list name of prime: Primary 
Contractor  
 
b. SC 
 Entity name: State of SC   
 Entity address: 1201 Main Street, #601 Columbia SC 29201 
 Contract number/purchase order number assigned by the Entity: 
5400008056 
 Original Term of the Contract/purchase order: 2016-2024 
 
 Page 23 of 58 
 
 Contract/purchase order Start Date: July-2018 
 Duration of each contract/purchase order (time  to complete the 
work): 8 years 
 Total or approximate dollar amount contracted or received: $8+ 
million 
 The number of Staff assigned for the Contract or purchase order: 
25 
 Type of tasks performed by assigned Staff: BA/QA/PM/Software 
Developer 
 Stipulate if you were the primary contractor or hired as a 
subcontractor by the prime and list name of prime: Primary 
Contractor  
 
c. TX 
 Entity name: State of TX   
 Entity address: 300 W 15th St #1300, Austin, TX 78701 
 Contract number/purchase order number assigned by the Entity: 
ITSAC_445 
 Original Term of the Contract/purchase order: 2016-2018, 2018-20, 
2020-22, 2022-24 
 Contract/purchase order Start Date: Aug-2016 
 Duration of each contract/purchase order (time  to complete the 
work): 7 years so far out of 8 years contract (2016-2024) 
 Total or approximate dollar amount contracted or received: $5+ 
million 
 The number of Staff assigned for the Contract or purchase order: 
20 
 Type of tasks performed by assigned Staff: BA/QA/PM/Software 
Developer 
 Stipulate if you were the primary contractor or hired as a 
subcontractor by the prime and list name of prime: Primary 
Contractor  
 
d. MN 
 Entity name: State of MN   
 Entity address: 50 Sherburne Ave, St Paul, MN 55155 
 Contract number/purchase order number assigned by the Entity: 
MNSITE (T-18ASK) 
 Original Term of the Contract/purchase order: 2018-23 (earlier 
contract 2014-18) 
 Contract/purchase order Start Date: Feb-2018 
 Duration of each contract/purchase order (time  to complete the 
work): 5 years (4 years in earlier contract) 
 Total or approximate dollar amount contracted or received: $3+ 
million 
 
 Page 24 of 58 
 
 The number of Staff assigned for the Contract or purchase order: 8 
 Type of tasks performed by assigned Staff: BA/QA/PM/Software 
Developer  
 Stipulate if you were the primary contractor or hired as a 
subcontractor by the prime and list name of prime: Primary 
Contractor  
 
e. WA 
 Entity name: State of WA   
 Entity address: 1500 Jefferson St SE, Olympia, WA 98501 
 Contract number/purchase order number assigned by the Entity: 
ITPS Master Program Agreement 08215 
 Original Term of the Contract/purchase order: 2016-24  
 Contract/purchase order Start Date: Jan-2016 
 Duration of each contract/purchase order (time  to complete the 
work): 8 years   
 Total or approximate dollar amount contracted or received: $1 
million approximately  
 The number of Staff assigned for the Contract or purchase order: 4 
 Type of tasks performed by assigned Staff: BA/QA/Software 
Developer 
 Stipulate if you were the primary contractor or hired as a 
subcontractor by the prime and list name of prime: Primary 
Contractor 
f. FL 
 Entity name: State of FL   
 Entity address: 4050 Esplanade Way, Suite 280 Tallahassee, 
Florida 32399 
 Contract number/purchase order number assigned by the Entity: 
80101507-SA-21-1 
 Original Term of the Contract/purchase order: 2024-27 (earlier 
2020-23, 2016-18, 2018-20) 
 Contract/purchase order Start Date: Oct-2018 
 Duration of each contract/purchase order (time  to complete the 
work): 5 years  (2+3 years) 
 Total or approximate dollar amount contracted or received: $200k 
approximately  
 The number of Staff assigned for the Contract or purchase order: 3 
 Type of tasks performed by assigned Staff: Software Developer 
and DBA 
 Stipulate if you were the primary contractor or hired as a 
subcontractor by the prime and list name of prime: Primary 
Contractor 
 
g. MD 
 
 Page 25 of 58 
 
 Entity name: State of Maryland Health Benefit Exchange  
 Entity address: 750 E Pratt St, Baltimore, MD 21202 
 Contract number/purchase order number assigned by the Entity: 
MDM0031020679 and Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) 
SOLICITATION NO.: BPM031490 
 Original Term of the Contract/purchase order: 2015-17 and 2023-
2026 (with two extra years option) 
 Contract/purchase order Start Date: June-2015 
 Duration of each contract/purchase order (time  to complete the 
work): 2 years  
 Total or approximate dollar amount contracted or received: $479,360 
 The number of Staff assigned for the Contract or purchase order: 1 
 Type of tasks performed by assigned Staff: Software Developer 
 Stipulate if you were the primary contractor or hired as a 
subcontractor by the prime and list name of prime: Primary 
Contractor 
 
h. NY 
 Entity name: State of New York 
 Entity address: 5, 1220 Washington Ave, Albany, NY 12226 
 Contract number/purchase order number assigned by the Entity: 
HBITS 
 Original Term of the Contract/purchase order: 5 years  
 Contract/purchase order Start Date: Jan-2019 
 Duration of each contract/purchase order (time  to complete the 
work): 5 years  
 Total or approximate dollar amount contracted or received: $678,940 
 The number of Staff assigned for the Contract or purchase order: 1 
 Type of tasks performed by assigned Staff: Software Developer 
 Stipulate if you were the primary contractor or hired as a 
subcontractor by the prime and list name of prime: Sub Contractor 
 
i. UT/MS 
 Entity name: State of UT and MS 
 Entity address: 9800 Crosspoint Boulevard Indianapolis, IN 46256 
 Contract number/purchase order number assigned by the Entity: 
Knowledge Services MSP 
 Original Term of the Contract/purchase order: 5+5 years (2016-21, 
2021-26) 
 Contract/purchase order Start Date: Sep-2016 
 Duration of each contract/purchase order (time  to complete the 
work): 5 years  
 Total or approximate dollar amount contracted or received: $1 
million approximately  
 The number of Staff assigned for the Contract or purchase order: 6 
 
 Page 26 of 58 
 
 Type of tasks performed by assigned Staff: BA/QA/PM/Software 
Developer 
 Stipulate if you were the primary contractor or hired as a 
subcontractor by the prime and list name of prime: Primary 
Contractor 
 
 
13 Company Service Assurance. 
1. Quality Assurance Measures 
 Streamlined Candidate Selection Process: 
InnoSoul employs a rigorous, multi-step candidate review that includes:  
o Competency-based assessments. 
o Multi-level technical and behavioral interviews. 
o Thorough background checks and validation of certifications. 
 Continuous Monitoring: 
Candidate performance is periodically reviewed through client feedback, performance 
evaluations, and counseling to ensure alignment with objectives. 
 Issue Resolution: 
In the event of performance issues, innoSoul provides prompt replacement with no 
disruption to service delivery. 
 Technology Integration: 
Automation tools such as CEIPAL ATS ensure accuracy and consistency across 
recruitment and onboarding processes. 
 
2. Customer Service Offerings 
 Availability of Key Personnel:  
o Dedicated Account Managers act as single points of contact and are available 
through email, phone, or in person, responding to client queries within 8 business 
hours. 
o Flexible schedules ensure accessibility for urgent issues and meetings. 
 Help Desk Services:  
o Cloud-based ticketing systems enable real-time issue tracking and resolution. 
o Support teams are equipped to provide technical assistance, contract management, 
and candidate onboarding guidance. 
 
3. Customer Satisfaction Assessment 
 Feedback Mechanisms:  
o Regular customer satisfaction surveys and formal feedback loops ensure actionable 
insights into service quality. 
 Performance Metrics:  
o SLAs and KPIs (e.g., candidate onboarding times, fulfillment rates, and retention 
metrics) are measured and reported regularly. 
 
 Page 27 of 58 
 
 Client Retention Tracking:  
o Historical data shows a retention rate of over 90% for the past three years, 
reinforcing the effectiveness of service delivery. 
 
4. Customer Website Capabilities 
 Responsive Web 2.0 Design:  
o The website enables:  
 Access to contract details. 
 Submission of candidate profiles. 
 Real-time updates for job postings and order status. 
 Automation Features:  
o Posting and syndication of job requirements across platforms such as LinkedIn, 
Facebook, and job boards without manual intervention. 
 Subscription Service:  
o Vendors and candidates can subscribe to receive job notifications directly via email. 
 
5. Ordering Process and Methods 
 Online Order Submission:  
o InnoSoul uses CEIPAL ATS  and QuickBooks Cloud  for seamless order 
management and tracking. 
o Requirements are received through email or client portals and distributed 
automatically to recruiters and partners. 
 Order Tracking:  
o Slack is used for real -time communication among internal teams to ensure quick  
execution. 
o Clients receive progress updates, and orders are monitored until completion. 
 Placement and Invoicing:  
o Once a candidate is onboarded, timesheets and invoices are managed using 
QuickBooks, ensuring timely payment and transparency. 
 
6. Decentralized System of Order Submission 
 Multi-State Operations:  
o InnoSoul operates with satellite offices across the U.S. and leverages its network of 
over 2,750 partners. 
o A decentralized approach allows for simultaneous fulfillment of orders across 
multiple states while maintaining SLA adherence. 
 Real-Time Collaboration:  
o Automated notifications and cloud-based tools ensure efficient coordination among 
all stakeholders. 
o Dedicated account managers oversee compliance and quality across locations. 
 
A. Any other information your company feels is relevant and shows how it can excel at 
meeting/exceeding the scope of work requirements. 
Here’s a concise and focused response that highlights key points and reinforces 
 
 Page 28 of 58 
 
innoSoul's ability to excel in meeting or exceeding the scope of work requirements: 
 
Additional Information Highlighting innoSoul’s Excellence 
1. Technology-Driven Solutions: 
o InnoSoul, Inc. leverages advanced tools and technologies, such as CEIPAL ATS, 
automation for social hiring, and collaboration tools like Slack, to deliver timely, 
accurate, and efficient consulting solutions. 
o Automated systems for job syndication, candidate tracki ng, and order processing 
reduce cycle times, ensuring that resources are deployed quickly to meet client 
needs. 
2. Proven Track Record in Public Sector Consulting: 
o With over two decades of experience serving state and local government agencies 
across the U.S., innoSoul has developed specialized knowledge of compliance, 
procurement, and consulting requirements unique to public sector clients. 
o Ongoing contracts with st ate agencies in NC, TX, NY, and MN demonstrate 
innoSoul’s reliability and capability to manage complex, large-scale engagements. 
3. Sustainability and Diversity Commitment: 
o As a woman-owned business, innoSoul actively encourages partnerships with other 
woman- and minority-owned organizations, fostering inclusivity and diversity in 
service delivery. 
o Commitment to environmental sustainability is reflected in efficient use of cloud -
based technologies to minimize paper-based processes. 
4. Comprehensive Quality Assurance Processes: 
o InnoSoul ensures quality through rigorous candidate screening, competency-based 
assessments, and robust performance monitoring mechanisms. 
o Periodic reviews and client feedback loops drive continuous improvement in 
service delivery. 
5. Scalability and Agility: 
o With a network of over 2,750 subcontractor partners and satellite offices 
nationwide, innoSoul is uniquely positioned to scale services rapidly to meet multi-
state demands. 
o A flat organizational structure enables quick decision -making, whil e cross -
functional teams ensure adaptability to project-specific challenges. 
6. Exceptional Customer-Centric Approach: 
o InnoSoul prioritizes clear communication through dedicated account managers and 
prompt response times (e.g., 8 business hours for email/phone inquiries). 
o Help desk support and real -time reporting provide clients with transparency and 
confidence in the engagement process. 
7. Risk Mitigation and Continuity Planning: 
o A database of pre -vetted candidates ensures rapid replacements if performance 
issues arise, minimizing disruption to project timelines. 
o Lessons learned from past engagements are systematically applied to refine 
approaches and mitigate risks proactively. 
 
 Page 29 of 58 
 
 
 
Unique Differences in Ability to Meet the Scope of Work 
 
1. Public Sector Procurement Expertise: 
o Proven track record working with state agencies across NY, TX, NC, SC, and MN 
in procurement lifecycle tasks. 
o Familiarity with compliance regulations, contract development, and vendor 
evaluations tailored to government needs. 
2. Methodology Excellence: 
o Utilization of structured procurement frameworks to streamline market analysis, 
cost estimation, solicitation development, and award processes. 
o Integration of tools like CEIPAL ATS for efficient vendor management and 
performance tracking. 
3. Scalable Resource Deployment: 
o InnoSoul’s network of over 2,750 partners ensures flexibility in fulfilling large-
scale procurement needs. 
 
4. Technological Expertise: 
o Deep knowledge in IT strategy, architectural frameworks, and advanced 
technologies, including Oracle, SAP, Microsoft, Java, and Cloud Computing. 
o Successfully executed IT advisory engagements in both public and private sectors 
(e.g., IBM integration projects for MN’s Department of Human Services). 
5. Innovative Solutions: 
o Use of collaboration tools like Slack and social hiring automation to enhance 
efficiency in research and consulting efforts. 
o Tailored IT roadmaps for clients, ensuring scalable, cost-effective, and secure 
solutions. 
6. Compliance and Security: 
o Expertise in meeting regulatory standards like ISO 2700X and NIST guidelines 
ensures secure and reliable IT systems consulting. 
 
Integrated Strengths  
 Quality Assurance: Rigorous screening and performance evaluations align resource 
capabilities with client goals. 
 Risk Management: Proactive monitoring and rapid candidate replacement processes 
minimize disruptions in service delivery. 
 Customer-Centric Approach: Transparent communication and real-time reporting 
foster trust and collaboration in both procurement and IT advisory roles. 
 
14 MANAGEMENT CAPABILITY   
Key Personnel 
 
 Page 30 of 58 
 
 
Rashi Shamshabad – Contract Manager 
Experience: 
With 20 years in the computer industry and 17 years in managing government projects, 
Rashi serves as the cornerstone for account and contract management. 
 
Role: 
As the President of innoSoul, Inc., Rashi assumes ultimate decision -making authority, 
ensuring seamless client communication and contract execution. 
 
Notable Skills:  
Extensive public sector experience across 17 states, including NC, SC, NY, and MN. 
Proven expertise in implementing cost -efficient outsourcing solutions to deliver business 
value. 
Adept at navigating multicultural business environments, thanks to her participation in 
international business forums. 
 
Recognition & Leadership:  
Rashi has received  numerous accolades for her contributions to IT and government 
services. 
Her leadership and negotiation skills ensure alignment with client goals and resource 
delivery. 
 
Shashi Kanth – Account Manager 
Experience: 
With 18 years in the computer industry and 13 years in leading government engagements, 
Shashikanth specializes in enterprise application integration and service -oriented 
architecture (SOA). 
Role: 
As Account Manager, he ensures smooth execution of project deliverables and acts as the 
primary liaison for resolving any contract-related issues. 
 
Notable Skills:  
Expertise in integrating ERP systems (SAP and Oracle) and other backend services. 
Extensive experience with public sector projects across NY, VA, MN, and MD. 
Adept in utilizing cutting-edge tools and methodologies to drive efficiency. 
 
Recognition & Leadership:  
Numerous awards for outstanding performance in IT and business integration. 
Strong project management abilities, with a focus on achieving client success. 
 
Organizational Structure to Support Key Personnel 
Flat Organizational Model: 
InnoSoul employs a cross-functional, startup-inspired structure that fosters collaboration 
and rapid decision-making. 
 
 
 Page 31 of 58 
 
Support Team: 
Dedicated recruiters, HR executives, finance managers, and administrative assistants 
work under the guidance of key personnel to ensure the contract’s success. 
 
Tools & Technology: 
Tools like CEIPAL ATS and Slack enhance communication, while QuickBooks ensures 
seamless invoicing and financial management. 
 
Rashi Shamshabad – Contract Manager 
Acts as the ultimate decision -maker and primary client contact for relationship 
management and strategic oversight. 
Responsible for ensuring compliance, quality control, and smooth execution of contract 
deliverables. 
 
a. Writing/Technical Background: 
20 years of experience in IT, including managing Human Resources Development and 
Marketing for government agencies. 
Proficient in utilizing business productivity applications like Microsoft Office and internet 
tools for structured documentation and contract management. 
 
b. Specific Training Attended to Increase Technical Knowledge: 
Certification course in Microsoft Technologies from Aptech, India. 
Completed a business management program at Dartmouth College, Hanover NH. 
Various Human Resources and Marketing training sessions. 
 
c. Record for Meeting Timelines and Accuracy of Time Estimates: 
Successfully managed contracts for over 17 state agencies, ensuring prompt service 
delivery and adherence to SLAs. 
Demonstrates exceptional multi -tasking abilitie s and consistently meets deadlines for 
resource onboarding, negotiation, and reporting. 
 
Experience Summary: 
Ms. Rashi offers over 20 years of experience in the computer industry including 13 years in the specialized 
areas of Human Resources Development and Marketing. She is an experienced Manager and people person 
to implement Business Solutions.  She is known as a leader around many facets of Business Circles. From a 
strong family business background and working as a Marketing Executive for various companies at the early 
stage of her career, Rashi was exposed to and began providing solutions with a confidence. 
 
Focus: 
Ms. Rashi provides real life experience in providing Business Solutions to add value to her clients.  She 
focuses on reducing developmental cost through efficient outsourcing.  Her soft skills are keys in her efforts 
to reproduce herself within client’s resources pool.  For years she has led projects through the full life cycle 
and support perspectives.  Ms. Rashi is the President who works to enable clients to become self sufficient 
in the use of technology solutions.  
 
Industry Knowledge: 
As a Business Specialist, Ms. Rashi’s skills allowed her to travel across Industries and countries that include 
India, Singapore, China, Europe, Malaysia and the United States.  During her experience in Singapore, she 
has participated in various business meets. 
 
 Page 32 of 58 
 
 
Technical Expertise: 
Ms. Rashi has led many initiatives that involve a variety of outsourcing projects.  Among the many such 
projects, Ms. Rashi has hands on experience in dealing with partners and negotiating effectively.  She is a 
well known negotiator when it co mes to finalizing deals. She is also very proficient at using business 
productivity applications like Microsoft Office and internet tools that include social networking sites.  
 
Recognition: 
Services provided by Ms. Rashi have consistently met and exceeded the expectations of her clients. She has 
received numerous recognition and appreciations for outstanding performance in the IT and outsourcing field.  
 
Leadership: 
Ms. Rashi has performed in leadership roles for more than 10 years.  In addition to leading multiple teams of 
technical professionals, she has been a leader in the application of soft skills and in managing the 
organizational changes necessary to get results. Currently, she leads inoSoul, Inc. at the difficult economic 
conditions prevailed all o ver the world. She also involves with local social and technical groups in a 
leadership role.  
 
Skills 
Management Skills and Qualities: 
Strong project management and team leadership abilities. 
Focused on client, team, and overall business success. 
Solid track record of goal-focused and value-add solutions. 
Excellent decision-making, problem analysis, and presentation skills. 
Outstanding multi-tasking ability, combining client and project tasks, managerial activities and business 
development efforts. 
Exceptional communication and relationship building skills. 
 
Miscellaneous:  
Microsoft Office / Microsoft Project / Lotus Notes/QuickPlace 
 
Professional Experience 
innoSoul, Inc.          President     July 2003 to 
Current 
 Designed various business plans; Partnered with NY state and IBM 
 Developed outsourcing partners abroad; Recommended clients on best business practices 
 Managed cash flows and financial stability of the company 
 Ms. Rashi's tenure at innoSoul, Inc. consisted of developing business, establishing new partners, diversifying 
business in various industries, technologies and demographics.  
 Supply a proposed strategy of an organizational structure to implement organization requirements; Provide 
HR leadership to the organization 
 Translate business needs into HR requirements and work to ensure all needs are fulfilled  
 Act as a liaison between technical business leaders and software vendors (specifically IBM). 
 Serve as a key contributor in ensuring and creating strategy execution as it relates to the orchestration of 
multiple projects and deliverables.  
 Provide expertise in determining the strategic business direction and goals 
 Organize and conduct meetings and conference calls with teams that include senior leaders, business 
partners and vendors. 
 Mentor and provide assistance, educational support and resource references to associates. 
 Developing applicable training materials for associates. 
G4 Technologies, Inc., Burlington MA  July 2002 to July 2003   HR 
Executive 
 Provide insight regarding strategic direction, planning and development (as well as the coordination and 
implementation) of the Human Resource Development plans  
 Provide recommendations to senior management regarding the Agency’s long-range HR strategy including 
 
 Page 33 of 58 
 
cost/benefit analysis and sizing of new teams.  
 Maintain a close working relationship with senior leaders to understand organizational goals and Business 
Requirements.   
 Conduct technical and personal interviews of consulting resources for various teams.   Prepared specific 
questionnaires for conducting technical interviews.     
G4 Technologies, Pte Ltd., Singapore/Malaysia    July 2001 to July 2002 
Marketing Executive 
 Designed solutions maintaining existing Business Plans using creative marketing techniques  
 Identify and document various marketing solutions for department needs  
 Mitigate lost customer down-time through the deployment of solutions based on proven best business 
practices  
 Ensure availability of Marketing team to meet various organizational needs  
 Manage and schedule team meetings  
 Used Microsoft Office suite for documenting and monitoring the progress in addition to communicating 
with the team and management 
Various Companies, Hyderabad/Mumbai India September 1999 to July 2001  Marketing 
Executive 
 Provided marketing support for various organizations 
 Involved in customer calls  
 Managed marketing teams and encouraged productivity improvements in teams 
 Conducted surveys and in-house brain-storming sessions to come out with new ideas 
 Involved in implementing plans to enhance customer satisfaction levels  
 
Education 
 Bachelor of Science (BS) in Commerce and Computers from Osmania University, Hyderabad 
 Certification course in Microsoft Technologies from Aptech, Hyderabad, India 
 
Relevant Training: 
 Various Human Resources and Marketing training sessions 
 Various conferences and seminars in HR and Marketing 
 
 
Shashi Kanth – Account Manager 
Serves as the single point of contact for resolving contract issues and coordinating with the 
client Contract Manager. 
Manages the internal team responsible for delivering on contract obligations efficiently. 
a. Writing/Technical Background: 
18 years of IT experience, specializing in Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA), Enterprise 
Application Integration (EAI), and Business Process Management (BPM). 
Expertise in integrating ERP applications like SAP and Oracle, supported by hands -on 
experience with backend systems. 
b. Specific Training Attended to Increase Technical Knowledge: 
Conducted technical training sessions for clients during his tenure at IBM. 
Trained extensively in IBM WebSphere family products (WAS/WPS/ESB/Portal/MQ, 
etc.). 
c. Record for Meeting Timelines and Accuracy of Time Estimates: 
Successfully delivered large -scale integratio n projects for multiple state agencies, 
consistently adhering to projected timelines. 
Known for his ability to lead projects through all phases, from design and development to 
deployment, documentation, and support. 
 
 Page 34 of 58 
 
 
Mr. Shashi offers over 15 years of experience in the computer industry including 8 years 
in the specialized areas of Services Oriented Architecture (SOA), Enterprise Applications 
Integration (EAI) and Business Process Management (BPM).  He is an experienced 
Architect and implementer of Java, J2 EE, Swing and SOA to implement ESB Solutions.  
He is known as an SME around many facets of SOA and holds IBM Certifications in 
WebSphere Business Integration Products (WAS, WPS/BPM, MQ, MQSI/WMB/IIB and 
ESB).  From a strong Integration background and working as a SOA Architect for NY State 
Agencies, Shashi was exposed to and began providing solutions with WPS/ BPM/ 
ESB/WMB/IIB/ WID/IID/ Modeler/Monitor.  He recently rolled off services engagement 
for multiple NY State agencies that required heavy SOA integration. 
Mr. Shashi provides real life experience in providing Business Integration solutions to add 
value to his clients.  He focuses on reducing developmental cost through the design and 
building of reusable integration components and artifacts.  His soft c onsultant skills are 
keys in his efforts to reproduce himself within client’s technical resources poll.  For years 
he has led projects through the design, development, testing, deployment, rollout, 
documentation, training and support perspectives.  Mr. Sha shi is a WebSphere Business 
Integration Specialist who works to enable clients to become self -sufficient in the use of 
IBM’s WebSphere Business Integration solutions.  
 Strong project management and team leadership abilities. Focused on client, team, and 
overall business success. Solid track record of goal-focused and value-add solutions. 
 Excellent decision-making, problem analysis, and presentation skills. Outstanding multi -
tasking ability, combining client and project tasks, managerial activities and busin ess 
development efforts. 
 Ability to combine leading -edge technologies with proven approaches for project 
deployment in creating custom methodologies for client success.  Exceptional 
communication and relationship building skills. 
 
15 Staff Expertise, Experience and Qualifications.  
Staff for Procurement Needs 
The following key personnel and supporting team members from innoSoul, Inc. will be 
responsible for fulfilling the procurement needs, addressing challenges, and ensuring 
effective collaboration between government entities and vendors: 
 
Key Personnel 
1. Rashi Shamshabad – Contract Manager 
o Expertise: Extensive experience in contract management, HR development, and 
marketing, specializing in government projects for over 17 years. 
o Qualifications: Bachelor's in Commerce and Computers; certified in Microsoft 
Technologies, and trained in Business Management (Dartmouth College). 
o Role: Oversees the entire project lifecycle, ensuring compliance, quality control, 
and effective vendor management. 
o Strengths: Exceptional negotiation skills, leadership abilities, and a proven track 
record of managing state contracts across 17 states. 
2. Shashi Kanth – Account Manager 
 
 Page 35 of 58 
 
o Expertise: 18 years of IT experience, with 13 years specializing in Service-
Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Enterprise Applications Integration (EAI). 
o Qualifications: Expertise in ERP systems (SAP, Oracle), certified in IBM 
WebSphere technologies, and experienced trainer for technical programs. 
o Role: Coordinates day-to-day contract execution, liaises with client Contract 
Managers, and resolves issues promptly. 
o Strengths: Strong consulting skills, technical expertise, and leadership in multi-
phase projects for state agencies. 
 
Supporting Team Members 
 Recruiters and HR Executives: Responsible for sourcing, screening, and onboarding 
quality candidates. 
 Finance Manager and Accounting Executives: Manage invoicing, billing, and 
adherence to contract financial terms. 
 Administrative Assistant: Supports the Contract Manager and Account Manager with 
documentation, scheduling, and correspondence. 
 
Description of Staff/Team 
1. Background of Staff Assigned to Provide All Services 
 Technical Expertise: The team includes specialists with advanced knowledge in IT 
architecture, procurement lifecycle management, ERP systems, and compliance 
standards. 
 Public Sector Experience: Proven track record of delivering services to state agencies 
like NY, TX, MN, NC, and SC. 
 Training and Development: Staff regularly undergo certifications in industry-standard 
technologies and methodologies to stay updated. 
2. Are Staff Members Assigned to Clients? 
Yes, clients are assigned dedicated personnel for the duration of the pr oject. The assigned 
Contract Manager and Account Manager act as the primary points of contact. This ensures 
consistency, accountability, and seamless communication throughout the contract period. 
3. Average Turnover of Employees 
 InnoSoul maintains a low turnover rate of approximately 10%. This is achieved through 
incentives like profit-sharing, bonuses, training reimbursement, and a supportive 
workplace culture. 
4. Client Management and Communication 
 Client Management: Dedicated Account Managers oversee client relationships, monitor 
SLAs, and manage service delivery. 
 Communication: The team uses a combination of email, phone calls, and cloud-based 
collaboration tools (e.g., Slack) to ensure clear and real-time communication. Regular 
status updates and monthly reports are provided to clients. 
5. Handling Project Personnel Changes 
In case an assigned project personnel leaves before completion: 
 A replacement candidate is sourced from innoSoul’s pre-vetted talent pool within two 
weeks, ensuring minimal disruption. 
 Knowledge transfer sessions are conducted to maintain continuity and meet project 
objectives seamlessly. 
 
 Page 36 of 58 
 
6. Staff Training for Communication and Technical Skills 
 Communication Training: Staff participate in workshops and coaching sessions to 
enhance interpersonal and client interaction skills. 
 Technical Knowledge: Employees attend certification programs, webinars, and 
conferences to improve their expertise in relevant technologies and methodologies. 
7. Policies and Procedures for Performance Appraisals 
 Individual performance is reviewed quarterly based on SLAs, client feedback, and 
internal benchmarks. 
 Key metrics include:  
o Timeliness and quality of deliverables. 
o Feedback from clients and peers. 
o Initiative in skill development and problem-solving. 
 Appraisal outcomes determine eligibility for promotions, bonuses, and training 
sponsorships. 
 
16 Management Plan 
1. Customer Service Approach 
Dedicated Points of Contact:  
Each client is assigned a d edicated Account Manager (e.g., Rashi Shamshabad or Shashi 
Kanth) as the primary contact for queries and issue resolution. 
Communication Channels:  
Clients can reach representatives through email, phone, and cloud -based collaboration 
tools like Slack for real-time responses. 
Response Timelines:  
Email/phone queries: Responded to within 8 business hours. 
Status updates: Provided proactively in weekly or monthly reports. 
 
2. Plan for Servicing Multiple States 
Scalable Resource Network:  
innoSoul utilizes its ne twork of 2,750+ partners across the U.S. to deploy resources 
efficiently in various regions. 
Regional Support Structure:  
Satellite offices ensure coverage across multiple states. 
Staff availability is maintained through rotational schedules and automated notifications. 
Simultaneous Issue Resolution:  
Real-time collaboration tools, like Slack and CEIPAL ATS, enable multiple teams to 
address issues and deliver quality outputs concurrently. 
Account Managers oversee coordination across different regions to ensure consistency. 
 
3. Process for Determining Best Available Resources 
Needs Assessment:  
Analyze project requirements, timelines, and complexity. 
Match skills from in-house talent pools using CEIPAL ATS. 
Candidate Vetting:  
Multi-level screening process, including competency assessments, technical interviews, 
 
 Page 37 of 58 
 
and background checks. 
Cost Analysis:  
Define costs based on skillsets, availability, and project duration. Detailed cost breakdowns 
are shared with clients for transparency. 
 
4. Methodology for “Out-of-House” Resources 
Resource Gap Assessment:  
If in-house resources are unavailable, the requirement is distributed through established 
subcontractor networks. 
Subcontractor Engagement:  
Jobs are posted via automated systems to pre-vetted subcontractor mailing lists, reaching 
over 2,750 partners. 
Candidates undergo the same rigorous screening process to ensure quality. 
SME Contracting:  
For specialized needs, innoSoul consults with niche vendors to secure Subject Matter 
Experts (SMEs) promptly. 
 
5. Handling Supplemental Agreements and Legal Issues 
a. State Government Entities Worked With: 
Examples include:  
NC: Department of Information Technology. 
TX: Health and Human Services Commission. 
NY: Department of Labor, Department of Taxation and Finance. 
MN: Department of Human Services. 
SC, MI, MD, VA, MS, FL, UT, PA, WA agencies and more. 
b. Current Contracts Managed: 
innoSoul currently manages over 15 government contracts , including master servic e 
agreements and staff augmentation. 
c. Staff Allocation Per Project: 
Typically, 5–10 staff members  are assigned to ensure seamless execution, including an 
Account Manager, recruiters, and technical leads. 
d. Travel Policy: 
innoSoul accommodates client needs by arranging on-site visits where necessary. Travel is 
pre-approved and incorporated into project planning to ensure efficiency. 
 
6. Quality Control Process Throughout Procurement Life Cycle 
a. Internal Work Evaluation: 
Regular audits and reviews of can didate sourcing, onboarding timelines, and client 
feedback. 
Metrics include adherence to SLAs, retention rates, and performance evaluations. 
b. Client Feedback Process: 
Monthly satisfaction surveys. 
Dedicated account managers conduct feedback sessions with  clients to identify areas for 
improvement. 
c. Testing Documentation Effectiveness: 
Internal peer reviews and test-case validations before client submission. 
 
 Page 38 of 58 
 
Follow-up with clients to confirm clarity and usability of documentation. 
 
7. Plan for Acquiring State-Specific Procurement Knowledge 
Legal and Procedural Onboarding:  
Review each state’s procurement regulations and General Terms and Conditions during 
contract initiation. 
Attend state-provided training or onboarding sessions, if offered. 
Subcontractor Utilization:  
For niche requirements, subcontractors familiar with state-specific rules are engaged using 
established networks. 
 
8. Demonstration of a Diverse Knowledge Base 
a. Subject Matters Covered: 
IT Consulting and Consulting. 
ERP System Integration (SAP, Oracle). 
Cloud Computing, Networking, and Security. 
Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Business Process Management (BPM). 
Compliance and Regulatory Advisory. 
b. Staying Updated: 
Participation in industry conferences, training sessions, and certi fications (e.g., IBM 
WebSphere, CEIPAL ATS). 
Regular knowledge-sharing sessions within the organization to discuss emerging trends 
and technologies. 
 
 
4. SUSTAINABILITY  
A. Environmental Sustainability 
1. Carbon Footprint Reduction – What measures does the Offeror take to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions and its carbon footprint? 
2. Waste Reduction & Recycling – Does the Offeror have a waste reduction or 
recycling program? 
B. Economic Sustainability 
1. Long-Term Sustainability Commitment – Does the Offeror have a 
sustainability strategy or goals (e.g., carbon neutrality by a certain year)? 
2. Compliance with Regulations – Does the Offeror comply with federal, state, 
and local environmental laws that are applicable to its company and/or 
industry? 
3. Supply Chain Sustainability – How does the Offeror ensure sustainable 
practices throughout its supply chain and/or providing of services? 
C. Social Responsibility 
 
 Page 39 of 58 
 
1. Community Engagement – Does the Offeror invest in community programs or 
sustainability initiatives? 
2. Health & Safety Standards – Does the Offeror adhere to strong workplace 
safety and health standards? 
1. Community Engagement 
 Investment in Community Programs: 
o innoSoul, Inc. actively participates in and supports community initiatives, 
fostering engagement through partnerships with other minority- and woman-
owned businesses. 
o By encouraging subcontractor collaborations, especially with women/minority-
owned organizations, innoSoul contributes to creating a more inclusive and 
diverse economic landscape. 
o InnoSoul also participates in local social and technical groups, offering expertise 
and mentorship to aspiring professionals in IT and related fields. 
 Sustainability Initiatives: 
o The company adopts cloud-based technologies to minimize paper use and reduce 
its environmental footprint. 
o Virtual recruitment strategies and automation contribute to operational efficiency, 
further aligning with environmentally sustainable practices. 
 
2. Health & Safety Standards 
 Workplace Safety Commitment: 
o InnoSoul maintains a stringent confidentiality and workplace safety policy. All 
employees, whether in-house or client-site-deployed, review and sign 
documentation ensuring adherence to safety standards. 
o The company actively promotes workplace health by providing flexible work 
hours and supporting remote operations when feasible. 
 Employee Well-being: 
o Comprehensive health training programs are conducted to raise awareness about 
workplace safety practices. 
o Regular updates on policies related to employee safety, non-discrimination, and 
ethics are communicated and reinforced through periodic sessions. 
 Incident-Free Record: 
o In over 17 years of service to various government agencies, innoSoul has 
maintained a perfect record of workplace safety with no reported breaches or 
incidents. 
D. Innovation and Best Practices 
 
 Page 40 of 58 
 
1. Sustainable Innovation – Has the Offeror developed new sustainable practices, 
technology, or processes? 
2. Certifications & Awards – Does the Offeror hold any recognized 
sustainability certifications (e.g., ISO 14001, FSC, Fair Trade, Green Seal)? 
3. Continuous Improvement – How does the Offeror track and improve its 
sustainability efforts over time? 
 
1. Sustainable Innovation 
 New Sustainable Practices: 
InnoSoul has embraced cloud-based technologies to streamline recruitment and 
minimize environmental impact by significantly reducing reliance on paper-based 
processes. 
o Automation in job syndication and candidate tracking using tools like CEIPAL 
ATS and Slack minimizes manual intervention and energy usage. 
o Virtual hiring processes, including virtual walk-ins and online interviews, reduce 
travel-related emissions while improving efficiency. 
 Process Innovation: 
InnoSoul employs real-time job postings syndicated across platforms such as LinkedIn, 
Facebook, and Twitter without manual intervention, achieving faster candidate reach and 
better resource utilization. 
 Employee-Centric Sustainability: 
Flexible working options and remote operations have reduced operational overheads and 
employee commute-related emissions. 
 
2. Certifications & Awards 
 Certifications: 
While specific sustainability certifications like ISO 14001 are not explicitly mentioned, 
innoSoul adheres to rigorous standards, including: 
o ISO 2700X for data security and compliance, ensuring ethical operational 
practices. 
o Robust confidentiality and safety policies to safeguard employee and client 
interests. 
 Recognitions & Awards: 
InnoSoul has received accolades for its consistent quality delivery, particularly for 
government projects across multiple states, showcasing its reliability and commitment to 
long-term client success. 
 
3. Continuous Improvement 
 Tracking Sustainability Efforts: 
 
 Page 41 of 58 
 
o Regular internal reviews of energy and resource utilization identify areas for 
improvement. 
o Continuous upgrades to cloud-based systems ensure reduced operational impact 
and energy efficiency. 
 Feedback Integration: 
o Sustainability metrics are reviewed periodically during performance evaluations. 
o Feedback from clients and employees is incorporated to refine processes and align 
them with broader environmental goals. 
 Knowledge Sharing: 
o Lessons learned from engagements with state and private entities are 
systematically documented to enhance future initiatives. 
o Training sessions on sustainable practices are conducted to keep the workforce 
informed about environmentally responsible behaviors. 
 
E. If you are seeking an award in both categories, are there unique differences in 
your sustainability focus for each category that you would like to highlight?  
Please expound or “NA” if only seeking an award in one category 
Unique Differences in Sustainability Focus for Both Categories 
If pursuing an award in both categories, innoSoul, Inc. highlights the following distinct sustainability 
focuses that align with the nature of each category: 
 
1. Sustainability in Procurement Operations: 
o Emphasis on environmentally friendly practices in all procurement activities, such as 
using paperless workflows for solicitation development and contract administration. 
o Sourcing vendors and partners who adhere to sustainability standards, ensuring 
environmentally responsible procurement at every stage. 
2. Optimized Resource Utilization: 
o Implementation of cost-saving measures through cloud-based tools and collaboration 
platforms, minimizing energy consumption and administrative waste during the 
procurement lifecycle. 
3. Training on Sustainable Practices: 
o Providing procurement professionals with training on sustainability-focused evaluation 
criteria for vendor selection to promote greener practices. 
 
4. Innovation in IT Sustainability: 
o Leveraging cutting-edge cloud technologies to reduce the carbon footprint of IT 
advisory services, such as transitioning legacy systems to more energy-efficient cloud 
platforms. 
o Promoting the adoption of Green IT solutions, such as server virtualization and energy-
efficient data centers, in all consulting engagements. 
5. Customized Sustainability Roadmaps for Clients: 
 
 Page 42 of 58 
 
o Developing tailored IT strategies that prioritize sustainability, such as integrating 
renewable energy sources for data centers or implementing energy-efficient coding 
practices. 
6. Sustainability Through Continuous Improvement: 
o Incorporating client feedback to refine and expand sustainable IT recommendations, 
creating long-term environmental benefits. 
 
Integrated Sustainability Approach  
 Compliance with Environmental Standards: Adherence to regulations and sustainability 
certifications wherever applicable. 
 Automation and Efficiency: The use of tools like CEIPAL ATS and Slack to enhance efficiency 
while minimizing resource consumption in both procurement and IT services. 
 Diverse Vendor Collaboration: Working with environmentally conscious vendors and 
subcontractors to uphold sustainability goals across categories. 
 
17 Company Experience  
1. Experience with Contracting Cooperatives 
 Extensive Cooperative Experience: 
innoSoul has partnered with several contracting cooperatives such as North Carolina 
Master Contract, Michigan IT Staff Augmentation, and the Minnesota IT Professional 
Technical Services Master Contract. 
 Track Record: 
Successfully executed projects across public sector domains, leveraging cooperative 
purchasing mechanisms to deliver cost-effective and scalable consulting solutions. 
 
2. Existing Cooperative Contracts and Sales Information 
 Current Contracts: 
innoSoul holds contracts with various cooperatives, including: 
o MN IT Professional Services Master Contract (MCP-902TS): 
Delivering IT consulting and consulting services with a consistent track record of 
high client retention. 
o MI IT Staff Augmentation Contract: 
Supporting multiple agencies with scalable IT workforce solutions. 
o SC Master Contract: 
Providing specialized resources in areas like ERP systems and cloud technologies. 
 Sales Volume Information: 
Sales volumes vary by contract type and agency demand; innoSoul consistently meets 
performance benchmarks by adhering to SLA requirements and optimizing resource 
delivery. 
 Restrictions on Pricing/Sales: 
o InnoSoul complies with pricing agreements under cooperative contracts and has 
no restrictions such as most-favored-nation clauses that conflict with its pricing 
flexibility. 
 
3. Marketing Strategy for the Master Agreement 
 
 Page 43 of 58 
 
 Outreach Initiatives: 
o Launch targeted email campaigns to government entities and eligible 
organizations. 
o Conduct webinars and virtual demos to showcase offerings under the Master 
Agreement. 
 Leveraging Partnerships: 
o Engage with existing subcontractor networks to promote the agreement widely. 
o Utilize social media platforms (LinkedIn, Twitter) to increase visibility. 
 Client Engagement: 
o Dedicated Account Managers conduct one-on-one meetings with agency 
representatives to explain benefits and encourage participation. 
 
4. Website Features for the Master Agreement 
 Dedicated Website:  
o A responsive Web 2.0 platform tailored for Master Agreement services. 
o Features include:  
 Customized pricing details for Participating Entities. 
 Dedicated Account Manager contact information. 
 Online ordering and tracking functionalities. 
 Regular updates on service offerings, FAQs, and contract details. 
 
5. Staff Allocation and Training 
 Allocated Resources: 
o Contract Manager (Rashi Shamshabad) and Account Manager (Shashi Kanth) 
oversee all operations and client relationships. 
o Recruiters, HR executives, and subcontractor liaison teams ensure fulfillment of 
assignments. 
 Training for Compliance: 
o Comprehensive training sessions on Master Agreement terms, pricing policies, 
and adherence to cooperative regulations. 
o Internal workshops to familiarize staff with contract-specific requirements and 
reporting protocols. 
 
6. Negotiation Approach for Participating Addenda 
 Flexibility for Participating Entities:  
o InnoSoul offers Participating Entities the ability to customize addenda with entity-
specific language, provided statutory citations and regulations are clearly 
documented. 
o Resources are allocated to manage simultaneous negotiations effectively to ensure 
prompt agreement finalization. 
 
7. Immediate Availability of Products and Services 
 Seamless Service Execution:  
o With a robust database of pre-vetted candidates and subcontractor networks, 
innoSoul ensures immediate deployment upon agreement execution. 
 
 Page 44 of 58 
 
o Proven processes and automation tools streamline onboarding for rapid 
fulfillment of requests. 
 
8. Ensuring Accurate Sales Reporting 
 Sales Tracking Mechanisms:  
o Cloud-based tools (QuickBooks and CEIPAL ATS) track orders and sales 
activities in real-time. 
o Partners and resellers are required to submit monthly summaries for aggregation. 
o Reports are reviewed by Account Managers to ensure compliance and accuracy. 
 
18 Approach and Methodology 
InnoSoul employs a suite of well-defined and adaptable methodologies to provide exceptional services 
across all proposed categories. Here's a breakdown of our general approach: 
 
1. Candidate Selection and Screening 
   - Competency-Based Assessments: Skill matrices are created based on client requirements to ensure 
candidates meet both technical and behavioral standards. 
   - Multi-Level Screening: Includes video interviews, technical skill tests, and references validation to 
ensure the highest quality in placement. 
   - Applicant Tracking System (ATS): Technology-driven processes using CEIPAL and social media 
integration for maximum reach and efficient candidate management. 
 
2. Project Delivery Framework 
   - Planning Phase: Clearly defined project objectives, timelines, and resource allocation. 
   - Execution Phase: Regular monitoring through established communication channels and reporting 
mechanisms. 
   - Evaluation and Closure: Documenting knowledge transfer and conducting performance reviews to 
assess project success. 
 
3. Continuous Monitoring 
   - Performance Metrics: Periodic performance evaluations and client feedback loops ensure consistent 
alignment with goals. 
   - Issue Mitigation: Rapid problem resolution through a robust database of qualified replacements to 
prevent disruptions. 
 
4. Quality Assurance (QA) 
   - Process Improvement: QA reviews help refine workflows and eliminate bottlenecks. 
   - Feedback Incorporation: Lessons learned from each engagement are systematically used to improve 
future placements. 
 
5. Training and Knowledge Transfer 
   - Train-the-Trainer: Senior consultants undergo extensive training to mentor others effectively. 
   - On-the-Job Training: Includes tailored knowledge-sharing sessions for seamless integration of 
resources. 
 
6. Compliance and Security 
 
 Page 45 of 58 
 
   - Regulatory Adherence: In-depth understanding of compliance standards such as ISO 2700X and NIST 
ensures secure and reliable service delivery. 
   - Background Checks: Comprehensive checks for work eligibility, certifications, and criminal history. 
 
By integrating these methodologies, InnoSoul ensures that every service provided is tailored to meet the 
Client's strategic goals while maintaining a high standard of excellence.  
18.1 Benefits 
The methodologies employed by innoSoul offer several key benefits to clients, ensuring efficient, high-
quality, and reliable consulting and consulting services: 
 
1. Enhanced Quality of Resources 
   - Comprehensive screening processes ensure that only the most qualified candidates are presented to 
clients. 
   - Skill assessments, background checks, and certifications guarantee candidates meet industry 
standards. 
 
2. Increased Efficiency 
   - Streamlined processes, such as internal SLAs for sourcing and onboarding, ensure quick turnaround 
times. 
   - Use of technology, like Applicant Tracking Systems (ATS) and automation tools, allows for faster and 
more accurate matching of candidates to positions. 
 
3. Risk Mitigation 
   - Continuous performance monitoring and feedback loops help identify and address issues early. 
   - Database of pre-vetted candidates enables quick replacements in case of unexpected disruptions. 
 
4. Client-Centric Approach 
   - Transparent communication channels and tailored solutions ensure alignment with client needs and 
goals. 
   - Regular status reporting and performance metrics provide visibility into progress and areas for 
improvement. 
 
5. Long-Term Success 
   - Training and mentoring initiatives enhance the capabilities of placed candidates, ensuring sustained 
performance. 
   - Knowledge transfer processes and lessons learned from previous engagements help refine future 
placements. 
 
6. Scalability and Flexibility 
   - Proven ability to handle large volumes of consulting requirements, supported by a strong network of 
subcontractors. 
   - Flexibility to adapt methodologies to specific client needs, ensuring tailored solutions. 
 
These methodologies not only help innoSoul deliver exceptional results but also foster trust and long-
term partnerships with clients.  
 
 Page 46 of 58 
 
19 Experience, Capacity and History 
19.1 Organization Profile 
 innoSoul, Inc. (Est. 2003) is a leading information technology firm providing highly customized and 
integrated consulting solutions for various businesses comprising of a broad spectrum of public and 
private sector clients. innoSoul is a certified IBM Partner, and a multinational computer technology and 
consulting corporation. Our cost effective, high quality government services are undoubtedly the reason 
why many of the nation’s largest Government agencies seek our services for their technical solution 
needs.  innoSoul has extensive expertise and specialization in IBM WebSphere, Java, J2EE, Oracle, 
Microsoft, and Oracle Applications. innoSoul is managed by technocrats with experience with startups 
and established companies with lean organization/management structure. We work with mostly (75%) 
full-time employees with around 25% sub-contractors/independent contractors.  
 
innoSoul, Inc. was first started in the state of NV in 2003. innoSoul, Inc. is a corporation. innoSoul, Inc. 
solution offerings are based on the concept of full consulting life cycle. innoSoul ensures planned, result-
oriented and end-to-end solution with emphasis on planning, account management and change 
management with consistent monitoring and tracking of resources which results in substantial reduction 
of implementation related risks and disruptions. innoSoul provides high value solutions for various state 
and local governments in the USA, using the proven consulting methodology. innoSoul utilizes best 
practices facilitating clients a chance to understand technical possibilities effectively utilizing the power 
of technology. 
 
innoSoul is working with various organizations in private and public sector.  It offers necessary resources 
and expertise to augment client consulting needs. Since 2003 we are experienced in consulting and 
innovation. innoSoul understands how to assess customer’s needs, from both a business and 
technological perspective. innoSoul offers an array of services through its Cost Optimization practices 
that will help customers assess, optimize, and consolidate their resources. Customers will then be able 
to make the move through a realistic assessment to see how our consulting can meet their 
requirements for today, tomorrow, and beyond. 
 
innoSoul is IBM partner with inception and specializes in IBM integration technologies. We carved out a 
niche in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) offerings and providing services to major state and private 
sector clients. We provided our staff with various skills to NY state agencies (DOL, DCJS, DTF, OTDA etc.), 
MA DOR, TX (TEA/TWC/HHSC/DFPS/CPA/TDLR/TPWD/RRC/DART/City of Plano), NC, SC  and major 
private clients like JPM Chase, Cigna, Chubb Insurance, BCBS/Health Now/HCSC, Atlas Air, Honda, First 
Tennessee Bank, eBay, SunTrust Bank, NetJets, Travel Guard/AIG, Genworth Financials, etc.  
 
We develop internal resources in specialized niche technologies and provide other vanilla technology 
resources from market. We have been providing staff covering breadth of technological landscape that 
includes Oracle, SAP, Microsoft, Java, IBM, Cloud, Mobile, Networking, Security etc. areas. With this 
experience, we are confident and committed to provide quality service to the state of KS and its 
agencies at competitive rates. 
innoSoul, Inc. has been providing services requested in this solicitation to TX, NC, NY, SC, MI, MD, MN, 
etc. state agencies, other local governments, school districts and other private/public entities. 
 
 
 Page 47 of 58 
 
19.2 Qualifications  
innoSoul is planning to reach out to all customers with our offerings. We intend to 
utilize technology in reaching out to vast customer base that will be in reach 
through the contract from this Solicitation. Our responsive Web 2.0 website has 
current contract details and will be updated with our new contract information along 
with rate card in addition to our other service offerings as seen below: 
 
 
 
innoSoul, Inc. with its technology edge combined with quality resources can deliver 
an efficient workforce to KS customers. With our efficient business process of 
sourcing candidates, and cost advantage we anticipate most of our marketing and 
support efforts will lead to a successful business relationship with the state of 
Texas. The efficiencies at each stage of the process will result in savings all along 
the supply chain. Technology edge and experience of innoSoul will help convert 
process improvements and efficiencies into cost savings and valuable quality 
resources for the end customer. 
 
innoSoul, Inc. will provide quality sales, order processing and support for all state’s 
customers using our in-house methodologies and systems evolved over last two 
decades. We maintain an account manager who will be in-charge for all 
communication with the state. The account manager is available all the time 
through emails, phones and in-person when required. The response time for 
email/phone call is within 8 business hours and personal meeting within one 
business day. 
 
We have satellite offices in various cities that we have been leveraging to provide 
consulting services to various states. We also have partners and subcontractors in 

 
 Page 48 of 58 
 
various locations across the United States. We use our email group for partners that 
reach close to 2750 partners in the country. We share our demands with all 
partners automatically by email immediately after we receive from our clients. We 
utilize our partners’ expertise and experience in serving the state.  
 
 
 
Being a woman owned organization; we encourage other woman/minority owned 
organizations to work with us in fulfilling demands arising from various clients.  
 
19.3 Experience 
Since 2003, with experience in consulting, consulting and innovation, innoSoul 
understands how to assess customer needs, from both a business and technological 
perspective. innoSoul offers an array of services through its Cost Optimization 
practices that will help customers assess, optimize, and consolidate their resources. 
Customers will then be able to make the move through a realistic assessment to 
see how our consulting can meet their requirements for today, tomorrow, and 
beyond. innoSoul resources have extensive experience, hold advanced degrees and 
have most of the industry standard certifications by Microsoft, Cisco, Oracle, PMI 
etc.  
 
innoSoul is working with various organizations in private and public sector.  It offers 
necessary resources and expertise to augment client consulting needs. Some of 
innoSoul's current and past Consulting/Consulting contracts are:  
 
1. CA: DEPARTMENT OF GENERAL SERVICES PROCUREMENT DIVISION  
2. FL: Florida State: Miami-Dade County Bid 071-LL04, Information Technology Services 
3. NC: Master Contract for the State of North Carolina 
4. MI: State of Michigan Staff Augmentation Contract  
5. MN: Professional Technical Services Master Contract Program (MCP) - 902TS 
6. MS: State of Mississippi General RFP – Information Systems Consulting Services 

 
 Page 49 of 58 
 
7. MT: Master Contract for Services Term Contract SPB06-1263B-17F  
8. NY: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY TEMPORARY PERSONAL SERVICES BACKDROP CONTRACT  
9.   NY Project based Consulting Services  
10. OK: University of OK Annual Consulting and Consulting Services 
11. PA: State of Pennsylvania Vendor Management System (VMS) by Compaid, Inc. 
12. SC: Master Contract for the State of South Carolina 
13. UT: Information Technology Consulting Services for DTS--DWS 
14. VA: VA Contingent Labor contract vendor 
15. WA: Washington State Department of Enterprise Services (DES) Information Technology: 
Professional Services  
16. MD: MHBE Information Technology: IDIQ Consulting & Technical Contract 
19.4 Methodology 
The Account Manager will coordinate and control various activities involved in 
contract management and client fulfillment process. innoSoul uses standard based 
systems approach where each process/activity is predefined and reviewed for 
improvement periodically. The following process is used by innoSoul staff to fulfill 
basic tasks related to the contract through this Solicitation. Candidates are sourced 
and on boarded at client location with systematic step-by-step approach outlined 
below:  
 
 
InnoSoul uses new technologies and tools to make it an efficient and effective process. We utilize 
internet-based technologies to improve the process and decrease the time it takes to implement the 
process. We define SLAs for each step and review them for adherence. We use various technologies in 
automating our recruitment process as shown in below diagram. We also use Virtual Walk-ins, Social 
Hiring, User Groups administration, Referrals and ATS – Applicant Tracking System to track the process. 
We will manage the client with the following principles:  
 

 
 Page 50 of 58 
 
 
 
19.5 Measurement 
Here’s an insightful response addressing both quantitative and qualitative measures 
of successful placement, as well as innoSoul's performance over the past three 
years: 
 
19.5.1 Quantitative Measures   
1. Timeframes for Placement:   
   - Internal Service Level Agreements (SLAs) ensure sourcing candidates within 
specified timelines, including job review, sourcing, shortlisting, interviewing, 
submission, and onboarding.   
   - Metrics:   
     - Job review and posting: 15 minutes.   
     - Sourcing profiles: 2 hours.   
     - Shortlisting: 4 hours.   
     - Interviewing: 1 day.   
     - Candidate onboarding: 3 days.   
 
2. Placement Retention Rate:   
   - Percentage of candidates completing assignments successfully, maintaining 
productivity throughout.   
   - Over the past three years: Retention rate exceeded 90%.   
 
3. Performance Feedback:   
   - Regular feedback from Client teams evaluating consultants’ contributions and 
alignment with project goals. 
 
19.5.2 Qualitative Measures   
1. Client Satisfaction:   

 
 Page 51 of 58 
 
   - Consistent communication with stakeholders ensures alignment of expectations. 
Feedback mechanisms are established to evaluate candidate effectiveness and 
adaptability.   
 
2. Performance Monitoring:   
   - In-depth review of consultant contributions, problem-solving capabilities, and 
teamwork.   
   - Strategies such as periodic interventions and one-on-one counseling to address 
potential challenges proactively.   
 
3. Consultant Engagement and Growth:   
   - Offering continuous training and development, mentorship programs, and 
incentives to retain high-performing consultants.   
19.5.3 Performance Metrics Over the Last Three Years 
- Submission Efficiency:   
   - Meeting SLAs consistently with more than 90% timely submissions.   
   - Candidate backouts maintained at 0%, ensuring reliability and trust in 
placements. 
 
- Retention and Adaptability:   
   - Consultants have been able to adapt seamlessly to diverse projects, reflected in 
high client satisfaction scores and repeat engagements. 
 
- Innovative Practices:   
   - Use of CEIPAL ATS, automation tools, and strategies such as virtual walk-ins 
and social hiring to improve sourcing efficiency.   
   - Proactive use of collaboration tools like Slack ensures rapid adjustments to 
consulting needs.   
 
Through these methodologies, innoSoul has consistently delivered measurable 
success in staff placements while maintaining the Client’s strategic objectives. 
19.5.4 Timeline 
We follow internal Service Level Agreements (SLAs) for our recruitment process to 
better serve our clients. We strive to meet below timelines and review performance 
to improve the same: 
 
innoSoul’s interaction with the customer is limited to what is agreed upon in the 
contract. Our preferred mode of communication is either emails or phone calls. We 
make sure that the staff that is authorized to discuss issues with the client is the 
only one contacting with required information. Wherever required, we participate in 
dialogue and/or training required to enhance our delivery and customer 
satisfaction.  
 
innoSoul believes in continuous improvement of our service levels and customer 
satisfaction. It is not possible to improve something that is not measured. We 
 
 Page 52 of 58 
 
believe in maintaining all required status reports on our work with each customer 
and review them periodically. It helps in understanding the level of service we are 
providing to our customers and at the same time helps improve our performance. 
 
We have been reporting to state agencies on our contracts. We will continue to 
communicate promptly on various recruitment stages to various agencies as 
outlined below:  
- Response to email from client: within 8 business hours 
- Response to phone calls from client: within 8 business hours 
- Response to interview requests: within 8 business hours 
- Monthly report to the state: by 10th of every month 
 
On-boarding times; 
Account managers interact with client representatives for interviews and 
onboarding. The client interaction is limited to authorized users and all accepted 
protocols are used to maintain confidentiality and integrity of the contract. We have 
been providing following onboarding times to various state agencies on our current 
contracts. We will continue to provide similar SLAs promptly on various on-boarding 
stages to various agencies as outlined below:  
- Scheduling interviews: 8 business hours 
- Background verification initiation: 8 business hours 
- Coordinating with the candidate for documents/signatures: 2 business days  
- Signing PO or any other documents by vendor: 8 business hours 
- Overall on-boarding process time: 5-10 business days (including background 
verification) 
Order Tracking communications  
innoSoul, Inc. believes in timely invoicing along with signed timesheets from the 
customer. We use cloud-based QuickBooks invoicing system from Intuit. We are an 
authorized reseller of QuickBooks for Intuit along with service provider for various 
clients. In the process, we honed in-house expertise in invoicing and accounting. 
Our normal payment terms are Net30 but we can work with various clients on their 
convenient terms. Our invoices are sent to the customer by email at the end of 
each month with a PDF attachment of invoice, timesheets in addition to brief details 
of invoice in the email. Our SLA for order tracking is to invoice the client within 5 
business days after the end of the month.  
Follow-up process and timeline. 
innoSoul believes in continuous monitoring of resources working on client 
assignment through periodic interventions. The process looks for any issues or 
scope for issues and tries to address them immediately through counseling. Our 
staff is experienced in identifying and resolving any issues. innoSoul keeps a 
database of quality resources and it has been enhanced year after year. In an 
adverse situation where a candidate fails to perform as per the customer’s 
expectations and need to leave the project for reasons out of our control, the 
candidate is replaced with no disruption in service. Our database of quality 
candidates comes in handy in a quick replacement in adverse situations like this. 
 
 Page 53 of 58 
 
We will provide 2-week guarantee of our services and provide equivalent training or 
knowledge transfer to client when we have to replace a candidate for performance 
issue. We have been providing following response times to various state agencies 
for many years on our current contracts. We will continue to provide similar SLAs 
promptly to various agencies as outlined below:  
- Response to email from client: within 8 business hours 
- Response to phone calls from client: within 8 business hours 
- Replacement of consultant: two weeks 
 
19.6 Service Management Plan 
innoSoul follows the standard methodologies that could be tailored to meet the specific organizational needs of 
clients. innoSoul ensures planned, result-oriented and end-to-end consulting solution with emphasizes on planning, 
account management and change management with consistent monitoring and tracking of resources which results in 
substantial reduction of implementation related risks and disruptions. innoSoul has embarked on an ambitious 
trajectory for providing high value solutions for various state governments in the USA, using the proven consulting 
methodology.  
19.7 innoSoul Offerings 
With more than 8 years of experience in consulting and innovation, innoSoul understands how to assess customer’s 
needs, from both a business and technological perspective. innoSoul offers an array of services through its Cost 
Optimization practices that will help customers assess, optimize, and consolidate their resources. Customers will 
then be able to make the move through a realistic assessment to see how our consulting can meet their requirements 
for today, tomorrow, and beyond.  
innoSoul’s offerings include:  
 Assess candidates for readiness and suitability for a position  
 Unbiased approach to selecting the best candidate  
 Conduct interviews before submitting 
 Continuous review of candidates for stated performance  
19.8 innoSoul History 
Since inceptions in 2003, innoSoul is working with various organizations in private and public sector. In 
2003, innoSoul started providing resources/consultants to IBM and New York State department of 
Taxation and Finance. In 2007, innoSoul provided resources to NY State Department of Labor. This year, 
the organization started providing resources to NY State Division of Criminal Justice, NC, SC, MN etc. 
innoSoul also worked with Texas Education Agency, State of Nevada, etc. We are also providing 
resources to various other NY State Agencies since the beginning of this year. In addition, we have been 
supplying consultants to various private sector entities like BCBS, SunTrust Bank,HealthNow, NetJets etc.  
19.9 Most recent, comparable contracts: 
1 NY State Department of Taxation and Finance 
2. NY State Department of Labor 
3. NY State Division of Criminal Justice  
4. NY State Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance 
5. MA Department of Revenue 
6. MN Department of Human Services (Consulting/Implementation project) 
7. Nevada State 
8. Texas Education Agency 
 
 Page 54 of 58 
 
9. State of South Carolina 
10. State of North Carolina 
11. State of Michigan 
12. State of Washington  
13. State of Mississippi  
14. State of Utah 
15. Deloitte Consulting 
16. eBay 
17. Honda 
18. SunTrust Bank 
19. BCBS NY/IL/MA/NJ 
20. NetJets, Columbus OH 
21. Atlast Air 
22. Chubb Insurance 
23. IBM 
24. LBPS 
25. Verizon 
26. Frontier Communications 
27. First Tennessee Bank 
28. Ciber  
19.10 Financials 
We are proving valuable to government sector customers by providing 
timely and quality resources. Another major factor in our growing 
success with government clientele is our pricing: we are able to source 
quality resources in -house and established subcont ractor channels at 
affordable prices and passing the benefits to our customers. InnoSoul 
has improved its internal processes since 2003 by deploying latest tools 
and technologies in consulting process. We have a solid P&L and balance 
sheet from the first y ear of operations in 2003 with no bankruptcies 
filed.  
19.11 Insurance 
We have been maintaining sufficient insurance coverages for the other agencies and the 
same should be good for the Client. Please fin the current policy limits for your review:  
19.12 Process 
Service Delivery 
innoSoul has proven service delivery model in place where the staff follows predefined processes in 
delivering results to customers. The process is well documented and the staff is trained to follow the 
instructions to achieve best results. The system helps in delivering quality resources to the customer.  
Quality Assurance 
The candidate selection process is streamlined over a period of 8 years and candidates are reviewed for 
their past performance. In addition, candidates are verified for their past work performed by 
background checks. This ensures quality resources are sourced every time.  
 
 Page 55 of 58 
 
Problem Management 
innoSoul believes in continuous monitoring of resources working on client assignment through periodic 
interventions. The process looks for any issues or scope for issues and tries to address them immediately 
through counseling. Our staff is experienced in identifying and resoling any issues.  
Corrective Actions 
innoSoul keeps a database of quality resources and it has been enhanced year after year. In an adverse 
situation where the candidate fail to perform per the customer’s expectations are need to leave for 
reasons out of organization’s control, the candidate is replaced with no disruption in service. Our 
database of quality candidates comes in handy in a quick replacement in adverse situations  
Customer Interaction 
innoSoul’s interaction with the customer is limited to what is agreed upon in the contract. Our preferred 
mode of communication is either emails or phone calls. We make sure that the staff that is authorized to 
discuss on any issue is only contacted with required information. Wherever required, we participate in 
dialogue and/or training required to enhance our delivery and customer satisfaction.  
Status Reporting  
innoSoul believes in continuous improvement of our service levels and customer satisfaction. It is not 
possible to improve something that is not measured. We believe in maintaining all required status 
reports on our work with each customer and review them periodically. It helps in understanding the 
level of service we are providing to our customers and at the same time help us improve our 
performance.  
Performance  
We follow internal Service Level Agreements (SLAs) for our sourcing process to better serve our clients. 
We strive to meet below timelines and review performance to improve the same: 
Job review, Job Description preparation and posting: 15 minutes 
Sourcing relevant profiles from various sources: 2 hours 
Shortlisting most suitable profiles: 4 hours 
Interviewing shortlisted candidates: 1 day 
Submitting final candidates to client: 1 days 
Client interview schedule: 1 days 
Candidate onboarding: 3 days 
Automation: Focus Areas: 
Virtual Walk-ins 
Social Hiring 
User Groups 
Referrals  
ATS – Applicant Tracking System 
Collaboration Tools (Slack) 
 
We use technology to the max in sourcing resources. We have state-of-the-art technology solution 
deployed on our website. All our requirements are posted on our website automatically without any 
manual intervention. We use “wordpress-post by email” feature to post job requirements along with 
required attachments directly on our website. The same is automatically syndicated to various locations 
that include LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr, Google+, Flickr, Pinterest, Instagram, Reddit etc. Our 
website allows prospective candidates and vendors to subscribe to job posts so that they can respond to 
our jobs when they see a match. 
 
 Page 56 of 58 
 
 
In addition, our CEIPAL Applicant Tracking Systems (ATS) maintains database of candidates that can be 
matched to each requirement and can be sent to suitable candidates. Each job is also posted in various 
job portals where interested candidates will respond to suitable jobs. Our team of recruiters will also 
search for suitable candidates within minutes of a new job posting. With all above strategies, we are 
aiming to reach to all potential candidates out there in record time to improve our performance. We 
have been meeting our SLAs for last 3 years with various state agencies. Our submissions are above 90% 
and backouts are at 0% in last 3 years.  
19.13 Methodology  
The Account Manager will coordinate and control various activities involved in 
contract management and client fulfillment process. innoSoul uses standard based 
systems approach where each process/activity is predefined and reviewed for 
improvement periodically. The following process is used by innoSoul staff to fulfill 
basic tasks related to the contract through this Solicitation. Candidates are sourced 
and on boarded at client location with systematic step-by-step approach outlined 
below:  

 
 Page 57 of 58 
 
 
 
InnoSoul uses new technologies and tools to make it an efficient and effective process. We utilize 
internet-based technologies to improve the process and decrease the time it takes to implement the 
process. We define SLAs for each step and review them for adherence. We use various technologies in 
automating our recruitment process as shown in below diagram. We also use Virtual Walk-ins, Social 
Hiring, User Groups administration, Referrals and ATS – Applicant Tracking System to track the process.  
 
  
