
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA 
 
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS SERVICES 
 
101 N 14th Street, 17th Floor  
 
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL # 118050 
 
TITLE:   Temporary Medical Personnel  
 
NIGP Commodity Code: 96269, 94864, 91878, 94874  
 
ISSUE DATE: April 22, 2026 
 
SEALED PROPOSALS DUE BY: May 6, 2026 - 5:00 PM EST 
    
 
Procurement Officer: Melek (Mel) Sanchez  
 Procurement Officer I   
E-Mail Address: melek.sanchez@dvs.virginia.gov  
 
 
 
 
  

 2 
USING AGENCY AND/OR LOCATION WHERE WORK WILL BE PERFORMED:  
Department of Veterans Services 
101 North 14th Street, 17th Floor 
Richmond, Virginia 23219 
 
OPTIONAL PRE-CONFERENCE or Teleconference: See Section VII for additional information related to this 
optional pre-proposal conference. 
 
CLARIFICATION OF TERMS: If any prospective Applicant has questions about the specifications or other 
solicitation documents, the prospective Offeror should contact the Procurement Officer whose name appears on the face 
of this solicitation no later than April 20th. All inquiries must be submitted in writing via e-mail to 
melek.sanchez@dvs.virginia.gov. Please include “Temporary Medical Personnel” in the title of the email. If the issuing 
Procurement Officer concludes that answers are required, then they will be answered by an addendum posted on eVA 
VBO. It is the responsibility of the Offeror to download the addendum. 
 
PERIOD OF CONTRACT: Upon award through May 5, 2027, with four (4) optional renewals as stated in section 
IX. Special Term and Condition 9.  
 
Note: This public body does not discriminate against faith-based organizations in accordance with the 
Code of Virginia, § 2.2-4343.1 or against a bidder or offeror because of race, religion, color, sex, national 
origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, political affiliation, or veteran status, status as 
a military family, or any other basis prohibited by state law relating to discrimination in employment. 
Faith-based organizations may request that the issuing agency not include subparagraph 1.f in General 
Terms and Condition C. Such a request shall be in writing and explain why an exception should be made 
in that invitation to bid or request for proposal. 
 
AWARD POSTING: Upon the award or the announcement of the decision to award a Contract as a result of this 
solicitation, the Commonwealth of Virginia, through the Virginia Department of Veterans Services, Procurement, will 
publicly post such notice online at https://eva.virginia.gov/ under Business Opportunities for a minimum of ten (10) 
days. 
 
 
In compliance with this request for proposals (“RFP”) and all conditions imposed in this RFP, the undersigned firm 
hereby offers and agrees to furnish all goods and services in accordance with the attached signed proposal or as 
mutually agreed upon through subsequent negotiation and the undersigned firm hereby certifies that all information 
provided below and, in any schedule, attached is true, correct, and complete. 
 
  
Date: Company Name: 
By (Digital Signature is acceptable): Complete Address: 
Name (please print):  
Title: City/State/Zip: 
Telephone Number: eVA ID # or Dun and Bradstreet No. (D-U-N-S): 
 
  Fax Number: E-mail address: 
 3 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
 
I. PURPOSE ..................................................................................................................................................................................... 4 
II. BACKGROUND ........................................................................................................................................................................... 4 
III. STATEMENT OF NEEDS ........................................................................................................................................................... 4 
IV. PROPOSAL PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION REQUIREMENT ...................................................................................... 7 
V. EVALUATION AND AWARD CRITERIA ................................................................................................................................ 9 
VI. REPORTING AND DELIVERY REQUIREMENTS ................................................................................................................ 10 
VII. PREPROPOSAL TELECONFERENCE .................................................................................................................................... 10 
VIII. GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS .................................................................................................................................  11 
IX. SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS.................................................................................................................................... 17 
X. METHOD OF PAYMENT ......................................................................................................................................................... 21 
XI. PRICING SCHEDULE ............................................................................................................................................................... 22 
XII. APPENDICES ............................................................................................................................................................................. 23 
APPENDIX A   COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA - STANDARD CONTRACT ................................................................... 24 
APPENDIX B   Small Business Subcontracting Plan ...................................................................................................................... 25 
APPENDIX C   OFFEROR DATA SHEET .................................................................................................................................... 27 
APPENDIX D   State Corporation Commission Form .................................................................................................................... 28 
APPENDIX E   Proprietary/Confidential Information Identification .............................................................................................. 29 
  
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
  
 4 
 
I. PURPOSE 
 
The purpose of this Request for Proposal (RFP) is to solicit sealed  proposals to establish a contract through 
competitive negotiation with a qualified vendors to treat residents of the Sitter & Barfoot (“SBVCC”) in accordance 
with accepted professional standards and appropriate federal and state guidelines, while complying with the policies 
and procedures of SBVCC.   
 
II. BACKGROUND 
 
The Virginia Department of Veterans Services (DVS) has more than 40 locations across the Commonwealth of 
Virginia. DVS traces its history to 1928 and the establishment of the Virginia War Service Bureau to assist 
Virginia’s World War I veterans.   Today, DV S assists veterans and their families in filing claims for federal 
veterans’ benefits and provides veterans and family members with access to behavioral healthcare, housing, 
employment, education, and other programs. The agency operates four long- term care facilities and three state 
cemeteries, as well as the Virginia War Memorial. For more information, please visit www.dvs.virginia.gov. 
 
III. STATEMENT OF NEEDS 
 
The Sitter & Barfoot Veterans Care Center is seeking multiple Contractors (Offerors) to serve as Temporary 
Nursing Medical Staff at SBVCC.  
 
A. Temporary Employee Basic Requirements: 
 
1. Serve residents regardless of race, creed, color, sex or national origin. 
 
2. Provide Registered Nurses (RN’s) and Licensed Practical Nurses (LPN’s) with a minimum of one 
(1) year experience as an RN or LPN with valid and unencumbered licenses, current CPR 
certifications, current negative PPD/chest x -rays and current criminal histo ry background checks 
with acceptable results.  (See Attachment A , Agency Registered Nurse and Licensed Practical 
Nurse Job Duties.) 
 
3. Provide Certified Nursing Assistants (CNA’s) with a minimum of six (6) months experience as a 
licensed CNA with valid and unencumbered licenses, current CPR certifications, current negative 
PPD/chest x-rays and current criminal history background checks w ith acceptable results.  (See  
Attachment A for Certified Nursing Assistant Job Duties.) 
 
4. Maintain verifications of PPD/chest x -rays, criminal background checks, CPR certifications and 
licenses.  Copies shall be sent to the SBVCC contract administrator upon request. 
 
5. Report to assignment dressed appropriately and with proper equipment as required.  Adhere to the 
SBVCC dress policy.  The SBVCC dress policy requires all facial piercings to remain covered and 
fingernails must be no longer than one quarter (1/4) of an inch.  
 
6. Provide transportation to and from SBVCC. 
 
7. Be available for the entire shift. 
 
 B. Order Placement:   
 
Due to varying staffing needs, volume requested per Contractor will fluctuate. 
 
1. Request for Service Engagement:   SBVCC will notify Contractor(s) of the agency points of 
contact, who will be authorized to request temporary personnel.  A telephone call from these 
individuals shall constitute a request for service under this contract.  Following a valid request for 
services, a purchase order will be issued confirming the temporary employee services provided. 
 5 
 
2. Billed Hours Determination:  The Contractor(s) shall invoice agency by the hour or tenth of an 
hour per the following table: 
 
   Tenths of an Hour Conversion Table 
 
Minutes Worked From Minutes Worked To Reporting Increment 
Zero (0) minutes Less than three (3) minutes Disregard 
Three (3) minutes Less than nine (9) minutes One tenth (1/10) of an hour 
Nine (9) minutes Less than fifteen (15) minutes Two tenths (2/10) of an hour 
Fifteen (15) minutes Less than twenty-one (21) minutes Three tenths (3/10) of an hour 
Twenty-one (21) minutes Less than twenty-seven (27) minutes Four tenths (4/10) of an hour 
Twenty-seven (27) minutes Less than thirty-three (33) minutes Five tenths (5/10) of an hour 
Thirty-three (33) minutes Less than thirty-nine (39) minutes Six tenths (6/10) of an hour 
Thirty-nine (39) minutes Less than forty-five (45) minutes Seven tenths (7/10) of an hour 
Forty-five (45) minutes Less than fifty-one (51) minutes Eight tenths (8/10) of an hour 
Fifty-one (51) minutes Less than fifty-seven (57) minutes Nine tenths (9/10) of an hour 
Fifty-seven (57) minutes Less than sixty (60) minutes One (1) hour 
 
3. Time Sheet Usage:  The Contractor(s) shall supply all temporary personnel with timesheets.  All 
hours worked each week shall be detailed on the timesheet and must be signed on a daily basis by 
SBVCC’s Nursing Supervisor, or the designated SBVCC point(s) of contact, to be considered valid 
for payment.  Timesheets are to be signed at the end of the scheduled shift.  Copies of the temporary 
employee(s) timesheet(s) shall accompany each invoice for services provided. 
 
4. Work Requirements:   
 
 a. Hours of Service:  The standard working hours are as follows: 
 
  i. Shift One (1) – 7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. 
 
  ii. Shift Two (2) – 3:00 p.m. to 11:30 p.m. 
 
  iii. Shift Three (3) – 11:00 p.m. to 7:30 a.m. 
 
These working hours also apply to weekends and holidays.  A weekend is considered to 
begin at 11:00 p.m. Friday night and end at 7: 00 a.m. Monday morning.  A typical work 
week is considered to begin on Sunday and end on Saturday. 
 
b. Overtime and Holiday Calculations:  Contractor(s) shall not schedule temporary 
personnel for overtime.  Overtime must be specifically approved by the contract 
administrator and shall occur only in emergency situations.  Overtime shall require a 
separate purchase order and will be billed separately from this contract.  Overtime shall be 
defined as hours worked during the period of one-week (Sunday to Saturday) in excess of 
forty (40) hours per week.  A work week begins at 12:01 a.m. on Sunday.  Overtime pay 
in the amount equal of one and one half (1.5) times the employee’s regular hourly rate shall 
be paid for any hours worked during any of the following major holidays, which for the 
purposes of this RFP and any contracts that may result from this RFP, are defined as:  New 
Years Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day (July 4
th), Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day 
and Christmas Day, regardless of the number of hours the temporary employee has worked 
in the defined work week. 
 
c. Meal and Break Periods:  Meal periods will be thirty (30) minutes per shift worked. Two 
(2) scheduled fifteen (15) minute break periods are allowed per shift worked.  No payments 
will be made for meal and/or break periods unless SBVCC requires the temporary 
 6 
employee to remain on assignment without the break.  Meal periods and break periods may 
not be combined. 
 
d. Contractual Transition:  The Contractor(s) may be required to coordinate the transition 
of existing temporary personnel from the previous Contractor in order to provide a 
seamless transition with no loss of time or administrative burden to SBVCC.  The use of 
existing staff from previous contractual agreements may be extended by the 
Commonwealth for up to thirty (30) days in order to ensure a seamless transition. 
 
e. Placement Fees:  The Contractor(s) shall not charge SBVCC placement fees or agency 
fees if a temporary employee submits an application for employment and is selected for 
employment with SBVCC  through a competitive selection process.  The temporary 
employee shall give the Contractor a two (2) week notice prior to being employed by 
SBVCC. 
 
f. Contractor shall report any abuse or misconduct, as defined by state statute, involving 
temporary employees to the Board of Nursing and/or other authorities as required. 
 
g. SBVCC will pay for hours worked only.  In the event staff is not needed and are sent home 
prior to the end of their scheduled shift, payment will be made only for the exact hours 
worked. 
 
 C. Contractor Requirements 
 
1. Contractor will ensure the staff that they provide under this contract will report for duty as agreed 
and required.  In the event a scheduled temporary employee cannot and/or does not report has 
arranged by the Contractor, the Contractor will make provisions and communicate with SBVCC to 
provide another temporary employee. 
 
2. Emergency Request:  The Contractor(s) contacted by SBVCC will be given a two (2) hour time 
frame to fill the emergency request.  In the event a Contractor is unable to fill the job request, the 
SBVCC may cancel the request and place the request with one of the other Contractors.  In the 
event that all Contractors awarded a contract are unable to fill the request, SBVCC shall fill the 
requirements by obtaining a bid from other qualified sources. 
 
3. Federal and State Requirements:  Contractor(s) employee(s), the temporary employees provided, 
shall be responsible for all payroll taxes, workers’ compensation, payroll reports and other Federal 
and State requirements. 
 
4. SBVCC Cancellation Requests:  Contractor(s) will be given a two (2) hour notice of cancellation 
of a staffing request.  Should the SBVCC fail to cancel the request in the designated time, SBVCC 
agrees to pay an administrative fee.  
 
5. Credentials, Licensure and Certifications:  All Contractor-provided temporary employees must 
possess the appropriate credentials, licensure and/or certifications required by the Commonwealth 
of Virginia and meet quality standards described herein.  All such credentials shall be provided to 
SBVCC upon request.  Contractor(s) shall be required to maintain and update as required necessary 
licensure and certifications and provide evidence of updates to SBVCC upon request. 
 
6. Refusal Right:  The SBVCC retains the right to refuse utilization of Contractor(s)’ employees 
upon SBVCC’s sole determination that the use of Contractor(s)’ employee is not in the best interest 
of SBVCC, its staff and/or resident population served.  Refusal to utilize a Contractor(s)’ employee 
shall not relieve the Contractor from any requirements herein.  Contractor(s) shall maintain a listing 
of the temporary employees refused and/or coded as “do not u se”.  SBVCC will refuse all names 
on the refusal listing. 
 
 7 
7. Employee Tests:  The Contractor(s) shall ensure all personnel assigned to SBVCC  have been 
tested for tuberculosis.  A copy of the negative PPD/chest x- ray results shall be on file with the 
Contractor(s) for each individual prior to the employee beginning work involving direct resident 
contact.  All tests shall be maintained and updated on an annual basis. 
 
8. OSHA Regulations:  The Contractor(s) shall make available Hepatitis B vaccines to all personnel 
working directly with SBVCC  as per current OSHA regulations and shall ensure all personnel 
assigned to SBVCC are instructed in and act within all current and applicable OSHA regulations. 
 
9. Employee Verifications By SBVCC:  SBVCC reserves the right to conduct and inspect reference 
checks, background investigations and criminal history checks on any potential employee assigned 
to work at the SBVCC.  These employee verifications may be retained by SBVCC. 
 
10. Office Location:  Contractors must have a physical location within 100 miles of the SBVCC. 
Those outside this area must provide three references from Commonwealth companies currently 
receiving their temporary medical staffing services.  
 
 
IV. PROPOSAL PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION REQUIREMENT 
 
  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS: 
 
1. RFP Response: In order to be considered for selection, offerors must submit a complete response to this RFP, 
Applicants must submit an electronic response in eV A.  Any response received after the closing date and time 
specified in the RFP posting in eV A will not be able to be uploaded. All Applicants must be registered in eV A. 
See Section X General Terms and Conditions.  
 
  NOTE:  If you are submitting, as part of your proposal, trade secrets or proprietary information and are 
invoking the protections of Section 2.2-4342 of the Code of Virginia in writing as required, then you must 
also submit an electronic redacted copy, so indicated.  If you fail to provide these additional redacted 
electronic versions, then DVS assumes no liability or responsibility for disclosure or use of such data or 
information.  If you submit the redacted electronic version “ONLY” instead of “IN ADDITION TO the 
completed copies”, then your proposal may be rejected.  Submissions must include the complete version 
without any redactions.  The redacted electronic copy will be available for inspection after notice of award or 
intent to award. It is not acceptable to mark your entire proposal as proprietary. 
 
a. The following provides information/instruction on reviewing and responding to solicitations in the new 
eVA platform: 
 
i. Go to https://eva.virginia.gov  
ii. Click on “I Sell to Virginia” 
iii. Click on “eV A Supplier Training” 
iv. Click on “Viewing and Responding to Solicitations Video” 
 
b. If you require assistance submitting an electronic response, contact eV A Customer Care at Get Help eV A 
Customer Care (virginia.gov) prior to the closing date and time.  Get assistance early to avoid missing the 
submission deadline. 
 
c. If this is your first time submitting an electronic response, it is strongly suggested that you click on the 
eV A training module(s). You are encouraged to do this well in advance of the due date. 
 
   In the event state business operations are suspended (office is closed) on the date set for receipt of proposals, responses 
shall be due at the same time on the next regular business day.  
 
  2. Proposal Preparation: 
 
 8 
a. Submission of Materials. An authorized representative of the Offeror shall sign proposals. All information 
requested should be submitted. Failure to submit all information requested may result in the Commonwealth 
requiring prompt submission of missing information and/or giving a lowered evaluation of the proposal. The 
Commonwealth may reject proposals, which are substantially incomplete or lack key information. Mandatory 
requirements are those required by law or regulation or are such that they cannot be waived and are not subject 
to negotiation. 
 
b. Small Business Subcontracting Plan. All information requested by this RFP on the ownership, utilization and 
planned involvement of small businesses, women-owned businesses, and minority-owned businesses shall be 
submitted. See Appendix B. 
     
c. Clarity of Proposals. Proposals should be prepared simply and economically, providing a straightforward, 
concise description of capabilities to satisfy the requirements of the RFP. Emphasis should be placed on 
completeness and clarity of content. 
 
d. Organization of Proposal.  Proposals should be organized in the order in which the requirements are presented 
in the RFP. All pages of the proposal should be numbered. An appendix may be used for certain noted items. 
Each paragraph in the proposal should reference the paragraph number of the corresponding section of the 
RFP. It is also helpful to cite the paragraph number, sub-letter, and repeat the text of the requirement as it 
appears in the RFP. If a response covers more than one page, the paragraph number and sub-letter should be 
repeated at the top of the next page. Information, which the Offeror desires to present, that does not fall within 
any of the requirements of the RFP should be inserted at an appropriate place or be attached at the end of the 
proposal and designated as additional material. Proposals that are not organized in this manner risk 
elimination from consideration if the evaluators are unable to find where the RFP requirements are 
specifically addressed. 
 
e. Single Volume. The electronic copy of the proposal should be contained in a single volume where practical.  
All documentation submitted with the proposal should be contained in that single volume. 
 
f. As used in this RFP, the terms "must", "shall", "should" and “may” identify the criticality of requirements.  
"Must" and "shall" identify requirements whose absence will have a major negative impact on the suitability 
of the proposed solution.  Items labeled as "should" or “may” are highly desirable, although their absence will 
not have a large impact and would be useful, but are not necessary.  Depending on the overall response to the 
RFP, some individual "must" and "shall" items may not be fully satisfied, but it is the intent to satisfy most, if 
not all, "must" and "shall" requirements. The inability of an Offeror to satisfy a "must" or "shall" requirement 
does not automatically remove that Offeror from consideration; however, it may seriously affect the overall 
rating of the Offeror’s proposal. 
 
g. Ownership of Materials. Ownership of all data, materials and documentation originated and prepared for the 
Commonwealth pursuant to the RFP shall belong exclusively to the Commonwealth and be subject to public 
inspection in accordance with the Virginia Fre edom of Information Act. Trade secrets or proprietary 
information submitted by an Offeror shall not be subject to public disclosure under the Virginia Freedom of 
Information Act; however, the Offeror shall invoke the protection of Section 2.2-4342F of the Code of Virginia, 
in writing, either before or at the time the data or other material is submitted. The written notice shall 
specifically identify the data or materials to be protected and state the reasons why protection is necessary. The 
proprietary or trade secret material submitted shall be identified by some distinct method such as highlighting 
or underlining and must indicate only the specific words, figures, or paragraphs that constitute trade secret or 
proprietary information. THE CLASSIFICATION OF AN ENTIRE PROPOSAL DOCUMENT, LINE 
ITEM PRICES AND/OR TOTAL PROPOSAL PRICES AS PROPRIETARY OR TRADE SECRETS 
IS NOT ACCEPTABLE AND MAY RESULT IN THE REJECTION OF THE PROPOSAL. 
     
  3. Oral Presentation: Offerors who submit a proposal in response to this RFP may be required to give an oral 
presentation of their proposal to the agency. This provides an opportunity for the Offeror to clarify or elaborate on 
the proposal. This is a fact finding and explanation session only and does not include negotiation. The 
Commonwealth will schedule the time and location of these presentations. Oral presentations are an option of the 
Commonwealth and may or may not be conducted.   
 
 9 
   
SPECIFIC PROPOSAL REQUIREMENTS:  
 
Proposals should be as thorough and detailed as possible so that the DVS may properly evaluate your capabilities 
to provide the required services.  Offerors are required to submit the following items as a complete proposal: 
 
Proposals shall be signed electronically (name and title) by an authorized representative with authority to bind the 
Applicant to the contract. 
 
1. Return the RFP cover sheet and all addenda acknowledgments, if any, signed and filled out as required. 
Electronic signatures are acceptable. 
 
2. Offeror Data Sheet, included as an attachment to the RFP, and other specific items or data requested in the 
RFP. 
 
3. A written narrative statement to include: 
 
  a. Experience in providing goods/services described herein. 
  b. Names, qualifications, and experience of personnel to be assigned to the project. 
  c. Resumes of staff to be assigned to the project. 
 
4. Specific plans for providing the proposed services. 
 
5. Proposed Price.  Indicate in the pricing schedule, Section XI of the RFP 
 
6. Small Business Subcontracting Plan – Summarize the planned utilization of DSBSD -certified small 
businesses which include businesses owned by women and minorities, when they have received DSBSD 
small business certification, under the contract to be awarded as a result of this solicitation. Offeror’s must 
complete Attachment B - Small Business Subcontracting Plan. Offerors and their subcontractors must have 
the DSBSD small business certification at the time of the proposal due date to receive credit for small 
business utilization.  
 
7. State Corporation Commission Form:  Required of all offerors pursuant to Title 13.1 or Title 50.   
 
 
V. EVALUATION AND AWARD CRITERIA 
 
 
 A. All proposals received will be reviewed and evaluated by an evaluation panel.  The panel will recommend proposals 
which most closely meet the requirements of the RFP. The following will be used in making the selection: 
 
1. Offeror's Qualifications -- This criterion includes the ability of the Offeror to meet the terms of the RFP, the quality 
controls in place to ensure a high-quality service, any special processes that increase the Offeror’s ability to perform 
the contract and experience providing similar services.  
  30 points 
 
2. Soundness of Approach -- Emphasis here is on the techniques for providing the services requested, and on the 
Offeror's capability to meet the needs of the agency.  
  40 points 
 
3. Pricing -- Charges should be broken down as outlined in Section XI, PRICING SCHEDULE. While this area will 
be weighted, it will not be the primary deciding factor in the selection process.  
  10 points 
 
4. Small Business Subcontracting Plan -- Emphasis is on the planned utilization of businesses that are certified as 
small by the Department of Small Business Supplier Diversity. 
    20 points 
 10 
 
  Total points possible are 100.  
 
NOTE:  A DSBSD certified small business who serves as a prime vendor will receive full credit for small business 
utilization.  Other businesses will receive credit based on their Small Business Subcontracting Plan. 
 
B. AWARD TO MULTIPLE OFFERORS : Selection shall be made of one or more offerors deemed to be fully 
qualified and best suited among those submitting proposals on the basis of the evaluation factors included in the 
Request for Proposals, including price, if so stated in the Request for Proposals.  Negotiations shall be conducted 
with the offerors so selected.  Price shall be considered but  need not be the sole determining factor.  After 
negotiations have been conducted with each offeror so selected, the agency shall select the offeror which, in its 
opinion, has made the best proposal, and shall award the contract to that offeror. The Commonwealth reserves the 
right to make multiple awards as a result of this solicitation.  The Commonwealth may cancel this Request for 
Proposals or reject proposals at any time prior to an award, and is not required to furnish a statement of the reasons 
why a particular proposal was not deemed to be the most advantageous ( Code of Virginia, § 2.2-4359D).  Should 
the Commonwealth determine in writing and in its sole discretion that only one offeror is fully qualified, or that one 
offeror is clearly more highly qualified than the others under consideration, a contract may be negotiated and 
awarded to that offeror.  The award document will be a contract incorporating by reference all the requirements, 
terms and conditions of the solicitation and the contractor’s proposal as negotiated. See Appendix A.
 
  
 
VI. REPORTING AND DELIVERY REQUIREMENTS  
  
A. The contractor shall provide a weekly invoice outlining the following: 
i. The specific employees assigned to SBVCC; 
ii. A copy of the timesheet completed by each employee assigned to SBVCC; 
iii. The total amount due for employees assigned to SBVCC. 
 
B. Prime Contractor Subcontractor Reporting: Each prime contractor shall furnish, monthly, all applicable information 
for each subcontractor listed on the Small Business Subcontracting Plan via the Subcontractor payment tool 
available through the contractor’s eVA account. 
 
In addition, prior to completion of the contract and prior to final payment, the contractor shall confirm the accuracy 
of the actual dollars spent with small businesses during the performance of the contract. The contractor shall submit 
letters from each small business subcontractor certifying the dollar amount they received for their participation in 
the contract. 
 
VII. PREPROPOSAL TELECONFERENCE  
 
OPTIONAL PREPROPOSAL TELECONFERENCE: An optional pre-proposal teleconference will 
be held at 1:00PM., EST on April 20, 2026 specified on the cover sheet through Microsoft Teams. 
The purpose of this conference is to allow potential offerors an opportunity to present questions and 
obtain clarification relative to any facet of this solicitation. 
 
This teleconference can be accessed using either of the following: 
 
Join by phone –  
 
1-434-230-0065  
Conference ID 558916456# 
 
Join with Microsoft Teams –  
Link is below 
Passcode - cs9vK38X 
Meeting ID – 243 349 010 156 217 
 
https://teams.microsoft.com/meet/243349010156217?p=goFgGa16XtKdlxgZvY   
 
 11 
While participation at this conference is not a prerequisite to submitting an proposal, Contractors who intend to 
submit an proposal are encouraged to participate and have a copy of the RFP available during the conference. 
Unauthorized contact with other D VS staff regarding this RFP may result in disqualification of the proposals 
submission.  
 
VIII. GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
The following terms and conditions are MANDATORY and shall be included verbatim in any Contract awarded. 
 
A. VENDORS MANUAL: This solicitation is subject to the provisions of the Commonwealth of Virginia Vendors Manual  and 
any changes or revisions thereto, which are hereby incorporated into this contract in their entirety.  The process for filing a 
complaint about this solicitation is in section 7.13 of the Vendors Manual . (Note section 7.13 does not apply to protests of 
awards or formal contractual claims.) The procedure for filing contractual claims is in section 7.19 of the Vendors Manual .  A 
copy of the manual is normally available for review at the purchasing office and is accessible on the Internet at eva.virginia.gov 
under “I Sell To Virginia”. 
 
B. APPLICABLE LAWS AND COURTS: This solicitation and any resulting contract shall be governed in all respects by the 
laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, without regard to its choice of law provisions, and any litigation with respect 
thereto shall be brought in the circuit courts of the Commonwealth. The agency and the contractor are encouraged to 
resolve any issues in controversy arising from the award of the contract or any contractual dispute using Alternative Dispute 
Resolution (ADR) procedures (Code of Virginia, § 2.2-4366). ADR procedures are described in Chapter 9 of the Vendors 
Manual. The contractor shall comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. 
  
C. ANTI-DISCRIMINATION: By submitting their (bids/proposals), (bidders/offerors) certify to the Commonwealth that they 
will conform to the provisions of the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, as well as the Virginia Fair Employment 
Contracting Act of 1975, as amended, where applicable, the Virginians With Disabilities Act, the Americans With Disabilities 
Act and § 2.2-4311 of the Virginia Public Procurement Act (VPPA). If the award is made to a faith-based organization, the 
organization shall not discriminate against any recipient of goods, services, or disbursements made pursuant to the contract 
on the basis of the recipient's religion, religious belief, refusal to participate in a religious practice, or on the basis of race, age, 
color, gender or national origin and shall be subject to the same rules as other organizations that contract with public bodies to 
account for the use of the funds provided; however, if the faith-based organization segregates public funds into separate 
accounts, only the accounts and programs funded with public funds shall be subject to audit by the public body. (Code of 
Virginia, § 2.2-4343.1E).  
 
In every contract over $10,000 the provisions in 1. and 2. below apply: 
 
1. During the performance of this contract, the contractor agrees as follows: 
   
a. The contractor will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, religion, 
color, sex, national origin, age, disability, or any other basis prohibited by state law relating to discrimination in 
employment, except where  there is a bona fide occupational qualification reasonably necessary to the normal 
operation of the contractor. The contractor agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to employees and applicants 
for employment, notices setting forth the provisions of this nondiscrimination clause. 
 
b. The contractor, in all solicitations or advertisements for employees placed by or on behalf of the contractor, will state 
that such contractor is an equal opportunity employer. 
 
c. Notices, advertisements and solicitations placed in accordance with federal law, rule or regulation shall be deemed 
sufficient for the purpose of meeting the requirements of this section. 
 
d. The requirements of these provisions 1. and 2. are a material part of the contract. If the Contractor violates one of 
these provisions, the Commonwealth may terminate the affected part of this contract for breach, or at its option, the 
whole contract. Violation of one of these provisions may also result in debarment from State contracting regardless 
of whether the specific contract is terminated. 
 
e. In accordance with Executive Order 61 (2017), a prohibition on discrimination by the contractor, in its 
employment practices, subcontracting practices, and delivery of goods or services, on the basis of race, sex, color, 
national origin, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, political affiliation, disability, or veteran status, 
is hereby incorporated in this contract. 
 
 12 
2. The contractor will include the provisions of 1. above in every subcontract or purchase order over $10,000, so that the 
provisions will be binding upon each subcontractor or vendor. 
 
D. ETHICS IN PUBLIC CONTRACTING: By submitting their proposals, offerors certify that their proposals are made without 
collusion or fraud and that they have not offered or received any kickbacks or inducements from any other offeror, supplier, 
manufacturer or subcontractor in connection with their proposal , and that they have not conferred on any public employee 
having official responsibility for this procurement transaction any payment, loan, subscription, advance, deposit of money, 
services or anything of more than nominal value, present or promised, unless consideration of substantially equal or greater 
value was exchanged.  
 
E. IMMIGRATION REFORM AND CONTROL ACT OF 1986: Applicable for all contracts over $10,000: 
By entering into a written contract with the Commonwealth of Virginia, the Contractor certifies that the Contractor does not,  
and shall not during the performance of the contract for goods and services in the Commonwealth, knowingly employ an 
unauthorized alien as defined in the federal Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. 
  
F. DEBARMENT STATUS: By participating in this procurement, the vendor certifies that they are not  currently debarred by 
the Commonwealth of Virginia from submitting a response for the type of goods and/or services covered by this solicitation. 
Vendor further certifies that they are not debarred from filling any order or accepting any resulting order, or that they are an 
agent of any person or entity that is currently debarred by the Commonwealth of Virginia.  
 
If a vendor is created or used for the purpose of circumventing a debarment decision against another vendor, the non- debarred 
vendor will be debarred for the same time period as the debarred vendor.  
 
G. ANTITRUST: By entering into a contract, the contractor conveys, sells, assigns, and transfers to the Commonwealth of 
Virginia all rights, title and interest in and to all causes of action it may now have or hereafter acquire under the antitru st laws 
of the United States and the Commonwealth of Virginia, relating to the particular goods or services purchased or acquired by 
the Commonwealth of Virginia under said contract. 
 
H. MANDATORY USE OF STATE FORM AND TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR RFPs: Failure to submit a proposal on 
the official state form provided for that purpose may be a cause for rejection of the proposal.  Modification of or additions  to 
the General Terms and Conditions of the solicitation may be cause for rejection of the proposal ; however, the Commonwealth 
reserves the right to decide, on a case by case basis, in its sole discretion, whether to reject such a proposal.  
      
I. CLARIFICATION OF TERMS : If any prospective offeror  has questions about the specifications or other solicitation 
documents, the prospective offeror should contact the buyer whose name appears on the face of the solicitation no later than 
ten (10) working days before the due date.  Any revisions to the solicitation will be made only by addendum issued by the 
buyer. 
 
J. PAYMENT: 
 
1. To Prime Contractor: 
 
a. Invoices for items ordered, delivered and accepted shall be submitted by the contractor directly to the 
payment address shown on the purchase order/contract. All invoices shall show the state contract 
number and/or purchase order number; social security number (for individual contractors) or the federal 
employer identification number (for proprietorships, partnerships, and corporations). 
 
b. Any payment terms requiring payment in less than 30 days will be regarded as requiring payment 30 days 
after invoice or delivery, whichever occurs last. This shall not affect offers of discounts for payment in less 
than 30 days, however. 
 
c. All goods or services provided under this contract or purchase order, that are to be paid for with public funds, 
shall be billed by the contractor at the contract price, regardless of which public agency is being  billed. 
 
d. The following shall be deemed to be the date of payment: the date of postmark in all cases where payment is 
made by mail, or when offset proceedings have been instituted as authorized under the Virginia Debt 
Collection Act. 
 
e. Unreasonable Charges. Under certain emergency procurements and for most time and material purchases, 
final job costs cannot be accurately determined at the time orders are placed. In such cases, contractors 
should be put on notice that final payment in full is contingent on a determination of reasonableness with 
 13 
respect to all invoiced charges. Charges which appear to be unreasonable will be resolved in accordance 
with Code of Virginia, § 2.2-4363 and -4364. Upon determining that invoiced charges are not reasonable, the 
Commonwealth shall notify the contractor of defects or improprieties in invoices within fifteen (15) days 
as required in Code of Virginia, § 2.2-4351.,. The provisions of this section do not relieve an agency of 
its prompt payment obligations with respect to those charges which are not in dispute (Code of Virginia, § 
2.2- 4363). 
 
2. To Subcontractors: 
 
a. Within seven (7) days of the contractor’s receipt of payment from the Commonwealth, a contractor awarded 
a contract under this solicitation is hereby obligated: 
 
1) To pay the subcontractor(s) for the proportionate share of the payment received for work performed by 
the subcontractor(s) under the contract; or 
 
2) To notify the agency and the subcontractor(s), in writing, of the contractor’s intention to withhold 
payment and the reason. 
 
b. The contractor is obligated to pay the subcontractor(s) interest at the rate of one percent per month (unless 
otherwise provided under the terms of the contract) on all amounts owed by the contractor that remain unpaid 
seven (7) days following receipt of payment from the Commonwealth, except for amounts withheld as stated 
in (2) above. The date of mailing of any payment by U. S. Mail is deemed to be payment to the addressee. 
These provisions apply to each sub-tier contractor performing under the primary contract. A contractor’s 
obligation to pay an interest charge to a subcontractor may not be construed to be an obligation of the 
Commonwealth. 
 
3. Each prime contractor who wins an award in which provision of a SWaM procurement plan is a condition to the 
award, shall deliver to the contracting agency or institution, on or before request for final payment, evidence and 
certification of compliance (sub ject only to insubstantial shortfalls and to shortfalls arising from subcontractor 
default) with the SWaM procurement plan. Final payment under the contract in question may be withheld until 
such certification is delivered and, if necessary, confirmed by t he agency or institution, or other  appropriate 
penalties may be assessed in lieu of withholding such payment. 
 
4. The Commonwealth of Virginia encourages contractors and subcontractors to accept electronic and credit card 
payments. 
 
K. PRECEDENCE OF TERMS : The following General Terms and Conditions VENDORS MANUAL, APPLICABLE LAWS 
AND COURTS, ANTI -DISCRIMINATION, ETHICS IN PUBLIC CONTRACTING, IMMIGRATION REFORM AND 
CONTROL ACT OF 1986, DEBARMENT STATUS, ANTITRUST, MANDATORY USE OF STATE FORM AND TERMS 
AND CONDITIONS, CLARIFICATION OF TERMS, PAYMENT shall apply in all instances.  In the event there is a conflict 
between any of the other General Terms and Conditions and any Special Terms and Conditions in this solicitation, the Special 
Terms and Conditions shall apply. 
 
L. QUALIFICATIONS OF OFFERORS: The Commonwealth may make such reasonable investigations as deemed proper and 
necessary to determine the ability of the offeror to perform the services/furnish the goods and the offeror shall furnish to the 
Commonwealth all such information and data for this purpose as may be requested.  The Commonwealth reserves the right to 
inspect offeror’s physical facilities prior to award to satisfy questions regarding the offeror’s capabilities.  The Commonwealth 
further reserves the right  to reject any proposal if the evidence submitted by, or investigations of, such offeror  fails to satisfy 
the Commonwealth that such offeror is properly qualified to carry out the obligations of the contract and to provide the services 
and/or furnish the goods contemplated therein. 
 
M. TESTING AND INSPECTION: The Commonwealth reserves the right to conduct any test/inspection it may deem advisable 
to assure goods and services conform to the specifications. 
 
N. ASSIGNMENT OF CONTRACT: A contract shall not be assignable by the contractor in whole or in part without the written 
consent of the Commonwealth. 
 
O. CHANGES TO THE CONTRACT: Changes can be made to the contract in any of the following ways: 
 
1. The parties may agree in writing to modify the terms, conditions, or scope of the contract.   Any additional goods or 
services to be provided shall be of a sort that is ancillary to the contract goods or services, or within the same broad 
 14 
product or service categories as were included in the contract award.  Any increase or decrease in the price of the contract 
resulting from such modification shall be agreed to by the parties as a part of their written agreement to modify the scope 
of the contract. 
 
2. The Purchasing Agency may order changes within the general scope of the contract at any time by written notice to the 
contractor.  Changes within the scope of the contract include, but are not limited to, things such as services to be 
performed, the method of packing or shipment, and the place of delivery or installation.  The contractor shall comply with 
the notice upon receipt, unless the contractor intends to claim an adjustment to compensation, schedule, or other 
contractual impact that would be caused by complying with such notice, in which case the contractor shall, in writing, 
promptly notify the Purchasing Agency of the adjustment to be sought, and before proceeding to comply with the notice, 
shall await the Purchasing Agency's written decision affir ming, modifying, or revoking the prior written notice.   If the 
Purchasing Agency decides to issue a notice that requires an adjustment to compensation, the contractor shall be 
compensated for any additional costs incurred as the result of such order and shall give the Purchasing Agency a credit 
for any savings.  Said compensation shall be determined by one of the following methods:  
 
a.       By mutual agreement between the parties in writing; or 
 
b. By agreeing upon a unit price or using a unit price set forth in the contract, if the work to be done can be expressed 
in units, and the contractor accounts for the number of units of work performed, subject to the Purchasing Agency’s 
right to audit the contractor’s records and/or to determine the correct number of units independently; or 
 
c.      By ordering the contractor to proceed with the work and keep a record of all costs incurred and savings realized.  A 
markup for overhead and profit may be allowed if provided by the contract.  The same markup shall be used for 
determining a decrease in price as the result of savings realized.  The contractor shall present the Purchasing Agency 
with all vouchers and records of expenses incurred and savings realized.  The Purchasing Agency shall have the right 
to audit the records of the contractor as it deems necessary to determine costs or savings.  Any claim for an adjustment 
in price under this provision must be asserted by written notice to the Purchasing Agency within thirty (30) days from 
the date of receipt of the written order from the Purchasing Agency.  If the parties fail to agree on an amount of 
adjustment, the question of an increase or decrease in the contract price or time for performance shall be resolved in 
accordance with the procedures for resolving disputes provided by the Disputes Cla use of this contract or, if there is 
none, in accordance with the disputes provisions of the Commonwealth of Virginia Vendors Manual.  Neither the 
existence of a claim nor a dispute resolution process, litigation or any other provision of this contract shall excuse the 
contractor from promptly complying with the changes ordered by the Purchasing Agency or with the performance of 
the contract generally. 
 
P. DEFAULT: In case of failure to deliver goods or services in accordance with the contract terms and conditions, the 
Commonwealth may terminate this agreement after verbal or written notice without penalty. Upon termination the 
Commonwealth may procure the goods or s ervices contracted for from other sources and hold the contractor responsible for 
any resulting additional purchase and administrative costs. This remedy shall be in addition to any other remedies which the 
Commonwealth may have. 
 
Q. Omitted  
        
R. Omitted 
       
S. Omitted       
 
T. INSURANCE: By signing and submitting a bid or proposal under this solicitation, the bidder or offeror certifies that if 
awarded the contract,  it will have the following  insurance coverage at the time the contract is  awarded. For  construction 
contracts, if any subcontractors are involved, the subcontractor will have workers’ compensation insurance in accordance 
with §§ 2.2-4332 and 65.2-800 et seq. of the Code of Virginia. The bidder or offeror further certifies that the contractor and 
any subcontractors will maintain these insurance coverage during the entire term of the contract and that all insurance 
coverage will be provided by insurance companies authorized to sell insurance in Virginia by the Virginia State Corporation 
Commission. 
 
MINIMUM INSURANCE COVERAGES AND LIMITS: 
 
1. Workers’ Compensation - Statutory requirements and benefits. Coverage is compulsory for employers of three or more 
employees, to include the employer. Contractors who fail to notify the Commonwealth of increases in the number of 
employees that change their workers’ compensation requirements under the Code of Virginia during the course of the 
contract shall be in noncompliance with the contract. 
 15 
 
2. Employer’s Liability - $100,000. 
 
3. Commercial General Liability - $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 in the aggregate.  Commercial General Liability 
is to include bodily injury and property damage, personal injury and advertising injury, products and completed operations 
coverage.  The Commonwealth of Virginia must be named as an additional insured and so endorsed on the policy.  
 
4. Automobile Liability - $1,000,000 per occurrence. (If an auto is used in performance of the contract.) 
 
5. Profession - Health Care Practitioner (to include Dentists, Licensed Dental  Hygienists, Optometrists, Registered or 
Licensed Practical Nurses, Pharmacists, Physicians, Podiatrists,  Chiropractors, Physical Therapists, Physical  Therapist 
Assistants, Clinical Psychologists,  Clinical Social Workers, Professional Counselors,  Hospitals, or Health Maintenance  
Organizations.) per the Code of Virginia § 8.01-581.15 
https://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/title8.01/chapter21.1/section8.01-581.15/ 
    
    
   
U. ANNOUNCEMENT OF AWARD: Upon the award or the announcement of the decision to award a contract as a result of 
this solicitation, the purchasing agency will publicly post such notice in eVA ( eva.virginia.gov) for a minimum of 10 days. 
 
V. DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE: Applicable for all contracts over $10,000: 
During the performance of this contract, the contractor agrees to (i) provide a drug- free workplace for the contractor's 
employees; (ii) post in conspicuous places, available to employees and applicants for employment, a statement notifying 
employees that the unlawful manufacture, sale, distribution, dispensation, possession, or use of a controlled substance or 
marijuana is prohibited in the contractor's workplace and specifying the actions that will be taken against employees for 
violations of such prohibition; (iii) state in all solicitations or advertisements for employees placed by or on behalf of the 
contractor that the contractor maintains a drug-free workplace; and (iv) include the provisions of the foregoing clauses in 
every subcontract or purchase order of over $10,000, so that the provisions will be binding upon each subcontractor or 
vendor. 
 
For the purposes of this section, “ drug-free workplace” means a site for the performance of work done in connection with a 
specific contract awarded to a contractor, the employees of whom are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, 
sale, distribution, dispensation, possession or use of any control led substance or marijuana during the performance of the 
contract. 
   
W. NONDISCRIMINATION OF CONTRACTORS : A offeror, or contractor shall not be discriminated against in the 
solicitation or award of this contract because of race, religion, color, sex, national origin, age, disability, faith -based 
organizational status, any other basis prohibited by state law relating to discrimination in employment or because the offeror 
employs ex-offenders unless the state agency, department or institution has made a written determination that employing ex-
offenders on the specific contract is  not in its best interest.  If the award of this contract is made to a faith -based organization 
and an individual, who applies for or receives goods, services, or disbursements provided pursuant to this contract objects t o 
the religious character of the faith-based organization from which the individual receives or would receive the goods, services, 
or disbursements, the public body shall offer the individual, within a reasonable period of time after the date of his object ion, 
access to equivalent goods, services, or disbursements from an alternative provider. 
 
X. eVA BUSINESS-TO-GOVERNMENT VENDOR REGISTRATION, CONTRACTS, AND ORDERS: The eVA Internet 
electronic procurement solution, web site portal eva.virginia.gov, streamlines and automates government purchasing activities 
in the Commonwealth.  The eVA portal is the gateway for vendors to conduct business with state agencies and public bodies.  
All vendors desiring to provide goods and/or services to the Commonwealth shall participate in the eVA Internet e-procurement 
solution by completing the free eVA Vendor Registration.  All bidders or offerors must register in eVA and pay the Vendor 
Transaction Fees specified below; failure to register will result in the bid/proposal being rejected. 
 
   Vendor transaction fees are determined by the date the original purchase order is issued and the current fees are as follows: 
 
a. For orders issued July 1, 2014, and after, the Vendor Transaction Fee is: 
 
(i) DSBSD-certified Small Businesses: 1%, capped at $500 per order. 
(ii) Businesses that are not DSBSD-certified Small Businesses: 1%, capped at $1,500 per order. 
 
b. Refer to Special Term and Condition “eVA Orders and Contracts” to identify the number of purchase orders that will 
be issued as a result of this solicitation/contract with the eVA transaction fee specified above assessed for each order. 
 16 
 
For orders issued prior to July 1, 2014, the vendor transaction fees can be found at www.eVA.virginia.gov . 
 
The specified vendor transaction fee will be invoiced, by the Commonwealth of Virginia Department of General Services, 
typically within 60 days of the order issue date. Any adjustments (increases/decreases) will be handled through purchase 
order changes. 
 
Y. AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS: It is understood and agreed between the parties herein that the agency shall be bound hereunder 
only to the extent that the legislature has appropriated funds that are legally available or may hereafter become legally available 
for the purpose of this agreement. 
 
Z. SET-ASIDES IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SMALL BUSINESS ENHANCEMENT AWARD PRIORITY:  
This solicitation is set- aside for award priority to DSBSD -certified micro businesses or small businesses when designated as 
“Micro Business Set -Aside Award Priority” or “Small Business Set- Aside Award Priority” accordingly in the solicitation.  
DSBSD-certified micro businesses or small businesses also includes DSBSD -certified women -owned and minority- owned 
businesses when they have received the DSBSD small business certification.  For purposes of award, offeror’s shall be deemed 
micro businesses or small businesses if and only if they are certified as such by DSBSD on the due date for receipt of proposals.  
 
AA. BID PRICE CURRENCY: Unless stated otherwise in the solicitation, offerors shall state prices in US dollars.  
 
BB. AUTHORIZATION TO CONDUCT BUSINESS IN THE COMMONWEALTH: A contractor organized as a stock or 
nonstock corporation, limited liability company, business trust, or limited partnership or registered as a registered limited  
liability partnership shall be authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth as a dome stic or foreign business entity if 
so required by Title 13.1 or Title 50 of the Code of Virginia or as otherwise required by law. Any business entity described 
above that enters into a contract with a public body pursuant to the Virginia Public Procurement Act shall not allow its existence 
to lapse or its certificate of authority or registration to transact business in the Commonwealth, if so required under Title  13.1 
or Title 50, to be revoked or cancelled at any time during the term of the contract. A public body may void any contract with a 
business entity if the business entity fails to remain in compliance with the provisions of this section.  
 
CC. CIVILITY IN STATE WORKPLACES :  The contractor shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that no individual, while 
performing work on behalf of the contractor or any subcontractor in connection with this agreement (each, a “Contract 
Worker”), shall engage in 1) harassment (including sexual harassment), bullying, cyber -bullying, or threatening or violent 
conduct, or 2) discriminatory behavior on the basis of race, sex, color, national origin, religious belief, sexual orientation, 
gender identity or expression, age, political affiliation, veteran status, or disability. 
 
The contractor shall provide each Contract Worker with a copy of this Section and will require Contract Workers to participate 
in agency training on civility in the State workplace if contractor’s (and any subcontractor’s) regular mandatory training 
programs do not already encompass equivalent or greater expectations.  Upon request, the contractor shall provide 
documentation that each Contract Worker has received such training. 
 
For purposes of this Section, “State workplace” includes any location, permanent or temporary, where a Commonwealth 
employee performs any work-related duty or is representing his or her agency, as well as surrounding perimeters, parking lots, 
outside meeting locations, and means of travel to and from these locations.  Communications are deemed to occur in a State 
workplace if the Contract Worker reasonably should know that the phone number, email, or other method of communication 
is associated with a State workplace or is associated with a person who is a State employee.  
 
The Commonwealth of Virginia may require, at its sole discretion, the removal and replacement of any Contract Worker who 
the Commonwealth reasonably believes to have violated this Section. 
 
This Section creates obligations solely on the part of the contractor.  Employees or other third parties may benefit incident ally 
from this Section and from training materials or other communications distributed on this topic, but the Parties to this agreement 
intend this Section to be enforceable solely by the Commonwealth and not by employees or other third parties.  
 
DD. CONTRACT EXTENSIONS: In the event that the original term and all renewals of this contract expire prior to the award 
for a new contract for similar goods and/or services, the Commonwealth of Virginia may, with written consent of the 
 17 
Contractor, extend this contract for such a period as may be necessary to afford the Commonwealth of Virginia a continuous 
supply of the identified goods and/or services. 
 
EE. FORCED OR INDENTURED CHILD LABOR:  During the performance of this contract the use of forced or indentured 
child labor is prohibited.  Any Prime Contractor shall include such prohibition in every subcontract that exceeds $10,000 and  
shall be binding upon each subcontractor or vendor. 
 
  For the purposes of this section, “ forced or indentured child labor”  means all work or service exacted from any person 
younger than 18 years of age under the menace of any penalty for the nonperformance of such work or service and for which 
such person does not offer himself voluntarily or performed by any person younger t han 18 years of age pursuant to a 
contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties.  
 
IX. SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS  
 
The following terms and conditions are desirable. The Contractor may propose alternative language, but the basic form of the 
Agreement shall be retained. Contractors are requested to limit their proposed changes, if any, to those of a substantive nature. 
The Commonwealth reserves the right to seek more specific or additional provisions during negotiations, as needed, e.g. service 
level requirements, response times, periods of performance, etc. 
 
1. AUDIT: The contractor shall retain all books, records, and other documents relative to this contract for five (5) years after final 
payment, or until audited by the Commonwealth of Virginia, whichever is sooner.  The agency, its authorized agents, and/or 
state auditors shall have full access to and the right to examine any of said materials during said period.  
 
2. BID ACCEPTANCE PERIOD: Any bid in response to this solicitation shall be valid for 180 days. At the end of the days the 
bid may be withdrawn at the written request of the bidder. If the bid is not withdrawn at that time it remains in effect unti l an 
award is made or the solicitation is canceled. 
 
3. ADVERTISING: In the event a contract is awarded for supplies, equipment, or services resulting from this proposal, no 
indication of such sales or services to the Commonwealth will be used in product literature or advertising. The contractor shall 
not state in any of i ts advertising or product literature that the Commonwealth has purchased or uses any of its products or 
services, and the contractor shall not include the Commonwealth in any client list in advertising and promotional materials.  
 
4. AWARD TO MULTIPLE OFFERORS : Selection shall be made of two or more offerors deemed to be fully qualified and 
best suited among those submitting proposals on the basis of the evaluation factors included in the Request for Proposals, 
including price, if so stated in the Request for Pro posals.  Negotiations shall be conducted with the offerors so selected.  The 
offeror shall state any exception to any contractual terms or conditions, including any liability provisions contained in the  
Request for Proposal in writing at the time of responding to such Request for Proposal if so requested by the Commonwealth. 
Such exceptions shall be considered during negotiation but shall not be used as a basis for scoring or evaluating which offerors 
are selected for negotiations.  Price shall be considered, but need not be the sole determining factor.  After negotiations have 
been conducted with each offeror so selected, the agency shall select the offeror which, in its opinion, has made the best 
proposal, and shall award the contract to that offeror. The Commonwealth reserves the right to make multiple awards as a result 
of this solicitation.  The Commonwealth may cancel this Request for Proposals or reject proposals at any time prior to an award, 
and is not required to furnish a statement of the reasons why a particular proposal was not deemed to be the most advantageous 
(Code of Virginia, § 2.2- 4359D).  Should the Commonwealth determine in writing and in its sole discretion that only one 
offeror is fully qualified, or that one offeror is clearly more highly qualified than the others under consideration, a contract may 
be negotiated and awarded to that offeror.  The award document will be a contract incorporating by reference all the 
requirements, terms and conditions of the solicitation and the contractor’s proposal as negotiated. See Appendix A. 
 
5. INTERPRETATION OF AGREEMENT: Headings are for reference purposes only and shall not be considered in construing 
this Agreement. If any term or condition of this Agreement is found to be illegal or unenforceable, it shall be severed, and the 
validity of the remaining terms and conditions shall not be affected. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as an express 
or implied waiver of the Commonwealth's sovereign or Eleventh Amendment immunity, or as a pledge of its full faith and 
credit. 
 
6. CANCELLATION OF CONTRACT : The purchasing agency reserves the right to cancel and terminate any resulting 
contract, in part or in whole, without penalty, upon 60 days written notice to the contractor . Any contract cancellation notice 
shall not relieve the contractor of the obligation to deliver and/or perform on all outstanding orders issued prior to the effective 
date of cancellation. 
 
 18 
7. eVA ORDERS AND CONTRACTS:  It is anticipated that the contract will result in multiple single purchase orders with the 
applicable eVA transaction fee assessed for each order.  Vendors desiring to provide services to the Commonwealth shall 
participate in the eVA Internet e-procurement solution.  
 
8. RENEWAL OF CONTRACT: This contract may be renewed by the Commonwealth for four (4) successive one year periods 
under the terms and conditions of the original contract except as stated in 1. and 2. below.  Price increases may be negotiat ed 
only at the time of renewal.  Written notice of the Commonwealth’s intention to renew shall be give n approximately 90 days 
prior to the expiration date of each contract period. 
 
1. If the Commonwealth elects to exercise the option to renew the contract for an additional one -year period, the 
contract price(s) for the additional one year shall not exceed the contract price(s) of the original contract 
increased/decreased by more than th e percentage increase/decrease of the “Other Services” category of the CPI-W 
section of the Consumer Price Index of the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics for the latest twelve months for 
which statistics are available. 
 
2. If during any subsequent renewal periods, the Commonwealth elects to exercise the option to renew the contract, 
the contract price(s) for the subsequent renewal period shall not exceed the contract price(s) of the previous renewal 
period increased/decreased by more than the percentage increase/decrease of the “Other Services” category of the 
CPI-W section of the Consumer Price Index of the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics for the latest twelve 
months for which statistics are available. 
 
9. BEST AND FINAL OFFER (BAFO): At the conclusion of negotiations, the offeror(s) may be aske d to submit in writing, a 
Best and Final Offer (BAFO).  After the BAFO is submitted, no further negotiations shall be conducted with the offeror(s).  
The offeror’s proposal will be rescored to combine and include the information contained in the BAFO.  The decision to award 
will be based on the final evaluation including the BAFO. 
 
10. EXTRA CHARGES NOT ALLOWED: No additional charges will be allowed under the Contract. Any changes to the scope 
of services that impact prices must be approved in advance with a written contract modification signed by both parties.  
   
11. SUBMISSION OF SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTING PLAN, EVIDENCE OF COMPLIANCE WITH 
SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTING PLAN, AND SUBCONTRACTOR REPORTING: 
 
A. Submission of Small Business Subcontracting Plan: It is the statewide goal of the Commonwealth that 42% of its purchases 
be made from small businesses  certified by DSBSD . This includes discretionary spending in prime contracts and 
subcontracts.  All bidders/offerors are required to submit a Small Business Subcontracting Plan.   The contractor is 
encouraged to offer such subcontracting opportunities to DSBSD -certified small businesses.  This shall include DSBSD -
certified women -owned and minority- owned businesses and businesses with DSBSD service disabled veteran -owned 
status when they have also received DSBSD small business certification. Where it is not practicable for any portion of the 
goods/services to be subcontracted to other suppliers,  the bidder/offeror shall note such on the Small Business 
Subcontracting Plan.  No  bidder/offeror or subcontractor shall be considered a small business unless certified as such by 
the Department of Small Business and Supplier Diversity (DSBSD) by the due date for receipt of bids or proposals. 
 
B. Evidence of Compliance with Small Business Subcontracting Plan:  Each prime contractor who wins an award in which 
provision of a small business subcontracting plan is a condition of the award, shall deliver to the contracting agency or 
institution monthly reports substantiating compliance in accordance with the small business subcontracting plan.  If a 
variance exists, the contractor shall provide a written explanation.   A subcontractor shall be considered a Small Business  
for purposes of a cont ract if and only if the subcont ractor holds a certification as such by the DSBSD .  Payment(s) may 
be withheld until  the purchasing agency confirms that the contractor has certified compliance with the contractor’s 
submitted Small Business Subcontracting Plan or is in receipt of a written explanation of the variance.  The agency or 
institution reserves the right to pursue other appropriate remedies  for non-compliance to include, but not be limited to, 
termination for default. 
 
C. Prime Contractor Subcontractor Reporting: 
1. Each prime contractor who wins an award greater than $100,000, shall deliver to the contracting agency or 
institution on a monthly basis, all applicable information for each subcontractor listed on the Small Business 
Subcontracting Plan that are DSBSD-certified businesses or Employment Services Organizations (ESOs).  The 
contractor shall furnish the applicable information to the purchasing office via the Subcontractor Payment Reporting 
tool accessible within the contractor’s eVA account. 
2. In addition each prime contractor who wins an award greater than $200,000 shall deliver to the contracting agency 
or institution on a monthly basis, all applicable information on use of subcontractors that are not DSBSD-certified 
 19 
businesses or Employment Services Organizations.  The contractor shall furnish the all applicable information to the 
purchasing office via the Subcontractor Payment Reporting tool accessible within the contractor’s eVA account. 
  
12. PRIME CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITIES : The contractor shall be responsible for completely supervising and 
directing the work under this contract and all subcontractors that he may utilize, using his best skill and attention.  
Subcontractors who perform work under this contract shall be respons ible to the prime contractor.  The contractor agrees that 
he is as fully responsible for the acts and omissions of his subcontractors and of persons employed by them as he is for the acts 
and omissions of his own employees. 
 
13. SUBCONTRACTS:  No portion of the work shall be subcontracted without prior written consent of the purchasing agency.  
In the event that the contractor desires to subcontract some part of the work specified herein, the contractor shall furnish the 
purchasing agency the names, qualifications and experience of their proposed subcontractors.  The contractor shall, however, 
remain fully liable and responsible for the work to be done by its subcontractor(s) and shall assure compliance with all 
requirements of the contract. 
 
14. QUALIFIED PERSONNEL : All services to be performed as specified in this solicitation shall be performed by properly 
trained and experienced personnel. The Commonwealth reserves the right to require proof of training or experience prior to 
award and at any time during the term of the contract. Verification of stated qualifications should be provided with the Offeror’s 
response. The Commonwealth reserves the right to request replacement of Contractor’s personnel if the Services performed by 
the Contractor’s personnel is deemed in any way unsuitable by the Contract Administrator. 
 
15. LOBBYING AND INTEGRITY : Offerors are cautioned that communications with individuals other than the Contracting 
Officer may result in incorrect and/or insufficient information being provided. In addition, the Offeror shall not, in connec tion 
with this or any other agreement with the State, directly or indirectly:  
 
1. Offer, confer, or agree to confer any pecuniary benefit on anyone as consideration for any State officer or employee’s 
decision, opinion, recommendation, vote, other exercise of discretion, or violation of a known legal duty, or  
 
2.  Offer, give or agree to give anyone any gratuity for the benefit of or at the direction or request of any state officer or 
employee.  
 
Upon request of the Department of Veterans Services , the Offeror shall provide any type of information the Agency deems 
relevant to the Offeror’s integrity or responsibility to provide the services or goods, described herein. 
 
16. CONTRACTUAL DISPUTES: In accordance with Section §2.2- 4363 of the Code of Virginia, Contractual claims, whether 
from money or other relief, shall be submitted in writing to the purchasing agency no later than 60 days after final payment;  
however, written notice of the Contract or’s intention to file such claim must be given to such agency at the time of the 
occurrence or beginning of the work upon which the claim is based. Pendency of claims shall not delay payment of amounts 
agreed due in the final payment. The purchasing agency shall render a final decision in writing within thirty (30) days after its 
receipt of the Contractor’s written claim.  
 
The Contractor may not invoke any available administrative procedure under Section §2.2- 4365 of the Code of Virginia nor 
institute legal action prior to receipt of the purchasing agency’s decision on the claim, unless that agency fails to render its 
decision within thirty (30) days. The decision of the purchasing agency shall be final and conclusive unless the Contractor, 
within six (6) months of the date of the final decision on the claim, invokes appropriate action under Section §2.2- 4364, Code 
of Virginia, or the administrative procedure authorized by Section §2.2-4365, Code of Virginia. 
 
The Department of Veterans Services, its officers, agents and employees, including without limitation, the Contracting Officers, 
are executing this Agreement and any Orders issued hereunder, solely in its or their statutory and regulatory capacities as agent 
of the Commonwealth agency purchasing and receiving the goods or services in question and need not be joined as a party to 
any dispute that may arise thereunder.   
 
In the event of any breach by the Commonwealth, Contractor’s remedies shall be limited to claims for damages and Prompt 
Payment Act interest and, if available and warranted, equitable relief, all such claims to be processed pursuant to this Sect ion. 
In no event shall Contractor’s remedies include the right to terminate any license or support services hereunder. 
 
17. CONFIDENTIALITY OF PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION: The contractor assures that information 
and data obtained as to personal facts and circumstances related to patients or clients will be collected and held confidenti al, 
during and following the term of this agreement, and unless disclosure is required purs uant to court order, subpoena or other 
regulatory authority, will not be divulged without the individual’s and the agency’s written consent and only in accordance 
with federal law or the Code of Virginia.  Contractors who utilize, access, or store personally identifiable information as part 
 20 
of the performance of a contract are required to safeguard this information and immediately notify the agency of any breach 
or suspected breach in the security of such information. Contractors shall allow the agency to both participate in the 
investigation of incidents and exercise control over decisions regarding external reporting.  Contractors and their employees 
working on this project may be required to sign a confidentiality statement. 
 
18. CONTINUITY OF SERVICES:  
 
a) The Contractor recognizes that the services under this contract are vital to the Agency and must be continued without 
interruption and that, upon contract expiration, a successor, either the Agency or another contractor, may continue them. 
The Contractor agrees: 
 
(i) To exercise its best efforts and cooperation to effect an orderly and efficient transition to a successor;  
(ii) To make all Agency owned facilities, equipment, and data available to any successor at an appropriate time 
prior to the expiration of the contract to facilitate transition to successor; and 
(iii) That the Agency Contracting Officer shall have final authority to resolve disputes related to the transition 
of the contract from the Contractor to its successor. 
 
b) The Contractor shall, upon written notice from the Contract Officer, furnish phase -in/phase-out services for up to ninety 
(90) days after this contract expires and shall negotiate in good faith a plan with the successor to execute the phase-in/phase-
out services. This plan shall be subject to the Contract Officer’s approval. 
 
c) The Contractor shall be reimbursed for all reasonable, pre -approved phase-in/phase-out costs (i.e., costs incurred within 
the agreed period after contract expiration that result from phase-in, phase-out operations) and a fee (profit) not to exceed 
a pro rata portion of the fee (profit) under this contract.  All phase-in/phase-out work fees must be approved by the Contract 
Officer in writing prior to commencement of said work. 
 
 
19. STATE CORPORATION COMMISSION IDENTIFICATION NUMBER :  Pursuant to Code of Virginia, §2.2 -4311.2 
subsection B, a offeror organized or authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth pursuant to Title 13.1 or Title 50 i s 
required to include in its proposal the identification number issued to it by the State  Corporation Commission (SCC). Any 
offeror that is not required to be authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth as a foreign business entity under Tit le 
13.1 or Title 50 or as otherwise required by law is required to include in its proposal a statement describing why the offeror is 
not required to be so authorized.   Indicate the above information on the SCC Form provided.  Contractor agrees that the process 
by which compliance with Titles 13.1 and 50 is checked during the solicitation stage (including without limitation the SCC 
Form provided) is streamlined and not definitive, and the Commonwealth’s use and acceptance of such form, or its acceptance 
of Contractor’s statement describing why the offeror was not legally required to be authorized to transact business in the 
Commonwealth, shall not be conclusive of the issue and shall not be relied upon by the Contractor as demonstrating compliance.  
 
20. E-VERIFY PROGRAM:  EFFECTIVE 12/1/13.  Pursuant to Code of Virginia, §2.2 -4308.2., any employer with more than 
an average of 50 employees for the previous 12 months entering into a contract in excess of $50,000 with any agency of the 
Commonwealth to perform work or provide services pursuant to such contract shall register and participate in the E -Verify 
program to verify information and work authorization of its newly hired employees performing work pursuant to such public 
contract. Any such employer who fails to comply with these provisions shall be debarred from contracting with any agency of 
the Commonwealth for a period up to one year. Such debarment shall cease upon the employer’s registration and participation 
in the E -Verify program. If requested, the employer shall present a copy of their Maintain Company page from E -Verify to 
prove that they are enrolled in E-Verify. 
 
    
21. BREACH: The Contractor shall be deemed in breach of this agreement if the Contractor: fails to provide any service by the 
specified delivery date; repeatedly fails to respond to requests for required service within the time set forth in this Agree ment; 
fails to c omply with any other term of this Agreement and fails to cure such noncompliance within ten (10) days (or such 
greater period as is acceptable to the Commonwealth) following Contractor’s receipt of a Show Cause Notice identifying such 
noncompliance; or fai ls to provide a written response to the Commonwealth Show Cause Notice within ten (10) days after 
receiving same. 
 
The Contractor shall not be in breach of this Agreement if the default was due to causes beyond the reasonable control of, and 
occurred without any fault or negligence on the part of, both the Contractor and its subcontractors. Such causes may include,  
but are not restricted to, acts of God or of a public enemy, acts of the Commonwealth in its sovereign or Contractual capacity, 
fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, freight embargoes, and unusually severe weather.  
 
 
 21 
X. METHOD OF PAYMENT  
 
The Contractor shall submit invoices for only those goods and services ordered and received as acceptable to 
DVS. The invoices shall be due for payment 30 days after the invoice is received or delivery of the goods, 
whichever occurs last as according to the Prompt Payment Act. 
 
The Contractor may elect to receive payment through the Commonwealth Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) 
Program – https://www.doa.virginia.gov/forms.shtml#edi 
 
Contractor shall submit invoice(s) with supporting documents to the address designated on the Purchase Order 
Failure to do so may result in delay of payment or rejection of invoices. The invoices(s) shall include: 
 
1. Purchase Order Number. 
2. List of Items. 
3. Name of the person who received the goods/services. 
4. Date of delivery/service. 
 
 
  
 22 
XI. PRICING SCHEDULE  
 
 
Category: Weekdays: Weekends (Saturday 
7:00 am – Monday 7:30 
am): 
Holidays (As defined 
in Section 
II(B)(4)(b)): 
Overtime: 
Registered Nurses     
   7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.     
   3:00 p.m. to 11:30 p.m.     
   11:00 p.m. to 7:30 a.m.     
 
Licensed Practical Nurses     
   7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.     
   3:00 p.m. to 11:30 p.m.     
   11:00 p.m. to 7:30 a.m.     
 
Certified Nursing Assistants     
   7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.     
   3:00 p.m. to 11:30 p.m.     
   11:00 p.m. to 7:30 a.m.     
 
Administrative Fee     
Cancellation Fee/Other Charges      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 23 
 
XII. APPENDICES 
 
Appendix A represents the proposed Contract, which the Commonwealth of Virginia would expect the Contractor to sign.  
  
 24 
APPENDIX A  
 
COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA - STANDARD CONTRACT 
   
Virginia Department of Veterans Services - Contract Number TBD 
 
 This Contract is entered into this              day of              , 2026 by                                                                      , hereinafter called the 
"Contractor", and Commonwealth of Virginia, Department of Veterans Services, hereinafter called the "Issuing Agency".  
 
 WITNESSETH that the Contractor and the Issuing Agency, in consideration of the mutual covenants, promises, and agreements herein 
contained, agree as follows: 
 
 SCOPE OF CONTRACT:  The Contractor shall provide the services to the Commonwealth as set forth in the Contract Documents. 
 
 PERIOD OF CONTRACT:  From May 6 , 2026, to May 5, 2027, with four (4) successive one-year options to renew the Contract in 
accordance with the terms and conditions noted in the Contract. 
   
The contract documents shall consist of: 
 
1) This signed form: 
 
2) The following portions of the Request for Proposals dated Month Day, 2026: 
 
a) The Statement of Needs, 
b) The General Terms and Conditions, 
c) The Special Terms and Conditions together with any negotiated modifications of those Special Conditions; 
 
Attachment ______, Date ____________________ 
Attachment ______, Date ____________________ 
 
3) The Contractor’s Proposal dated ________________, and the following negotiated modifications to the Proposal, all of which documents 
are incorporated herein. 
  
Attachment ______, Date ____________________ 
Attachment ______, Date ____________________ 
 
The Contractor [is a certified small business] [agrees to subcontract ___% of the contract to DSBSD-certified small businesses]. 
 
 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Contract to be duly executed intending to be bound thereby. 
 
                    CONTRACTOR                                                        COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA 
                                                Department of Veterans Services 
                            
By:     _____________________________________       By:     ______________________________________ 
 
Title:  _____________________________________       Title:  ______________________________________ 
   
Date:  _____________________________________       Date:  ______________________________________ 
 
Note: This public body does not discriminate against faith- based organizations in accordance with the Code of Virginia, § 2.2-
4343.1 or against a bidder or offeror because of race, religion, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, 
disability, political affiliation, veteran status, status as a military family or any other basis prohibited by state law rel ating to 
discrimination in employment. 
 25 
APPENDIX B  
 
Small Business Subcontracting Plan 
 
It is the goal of the Commonwealth that over 42% of its purchases be made from small businesses.  All potential bidders are required to 
submit the subcontractor plan by one of the following methods in order to be considered responsive: 
 
A. Complete the subcontractor plan as specified in the electronic response; or 
B. Download the “paper response” form , complete the subcontractor plan section , and submit as an attachment  with the bid 
response.  
 
Small Business:  "Small business (including micro)” means a business which holds a certification as such by the Virginia Department 
of Small Business and Supplier Diversity (DSBSD) on the due date for bids.    This shall also include DSBSD-certified women- owned 
and minority -owned businesses and businesses with DSBSD service disabled veteran owned status when they also hold a DSBSD 
certification as a small business on the bid due date.  Currently, DSBSD offers small business certification and micro busine ss 
designation to firms that qualify.  
 
Certification applications are available through DSBSD online at www.SBSD.virginia.gov (Customer Service).  
 
Bidder Name:                
 
Preparer Name:         Date:      
 
Who will be doing the work: □ I plan to use subcontractors  □ I plan to complete all work  
 
Instructions 
A. If you are certified by the DSBSD as a micro/small business, complete only Section A of this form.   
B.   If you are not a DSBSD-certified small business, complete Section B of this form.  For the bid to be considered and the bidder to be 
declared responsive, the bidder shall identify the portions of the contract that will be subcontracted to DSBSD -certified small 
business for the initial contract period in relation to the bidder’s total price for the initial contract period in Section B.    
 
Section A  
 If your firm is certified by the DSBSD provide your certification number and the date of certification.      
 
Certification number:     Certification Date:     
 
Section B 
 If the “I plan to use subcontractors box is checked,” populate the requested information below, per subcontractor to show your 
firm's plans for utilization of DSBSD-certified small businesses in the performance of this contract for the initial contract period 
in relation to the bidder’s total price for the initial contract period.  Certified small businesses include but are not limited to 
DSBSD-certified women-owned and minority-owned businesses and businesses with DSBSD service disabled veteran-owned 
status that have also received the DSBSD small business certification.  Include plans to utilize small businesses as part of joint 
ventures, partnerships, subcontractors, suppliers, etc.  It is important to note that these proposed participation will be incorporated 
into the subsequent contract and will be a requirement of the contract.  Failure to obtain the proposed participation dollar value or 
percentages may result in breach of the contract.    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 26 
B.   Plans for Utilization of DSBSD-Certified Small Businesses for this Procurement  
 
Subcontract #1 
Company Name:        SBSD Cert #:        
Contact Name:        SBSD Certification:       
Contact Phone:       Contact Email:         
Value % or $ (Initial Term):     Contact Address:         
Description of Work:             
 
Subcontract #2 
Company Name:        SBSD Cert #:        
Contact Name:        SBSD Certification:       
Contact Phone:       Contact Email:         
Value % or $ (Initial Term):     Contact Address:         
Description of Work:             
 
Subcontract #3 
Company Name:        SBSD Cert #:        
Contact Name:        SBSD Certification:       
Contact Phone:       Contact Email:         
Value % or $ (Initial Term):     Contact Address:         
Description of Work:             
 
Subcontract #4 
Company Name:        SBSD Cert #:        
Contact Name:        SBSD Certification:       
Contact Phone:       Contact Email:         
Value % or $ (Initial Term):     Contact Address:         
Description of Work:             
 
Subcontract #5 
Company Name:        SBSD Cert #:        
Contact Name:        SBSD Certification:       
Contact Phone:       Contact Email:         
Value % or $ (Initial Term):     Contact Address:         
Description of Work:             
 
  
 27 
 
APPENDIX C  
 
OFFEROR DATA SHEET 
 
Note:  The following information is required as part of your response to this solicitation.  Failure to complete and provide this 
sheet may result in a lower evaluation score. 
 
1. Qualification: The vendor must have the capability and capacity in all respects to fully satisfy all of the contractual require ments. 
2.  Offeror’s Primary Contact:  
  Name: _____________________________________ Phone: ______________________ 
 
3. Years in Business: Indicate the length of time you have been in business providing this type of goods or services:  
  __________ Years ________ Months 
4. Offeror Information: 
 
eVA Vendor ID or DUNS Number: ________________________________  
5. Indicate below a listing of at least four (4) current or recent accounts, either commercial or governmental, that your company is 
servicing, has serviced, or has provided similar goods.  Include the length of service and the name, address, and telephone nu mber 
of the point of contact. 
 
a
. 
1. Company:        Contact:       
 Address:       
 Phone:        Email:       
 Dates of Service:        $ Value:       
 
a
. 
2. Company:        Contact:       
 Address:       
 Phone:        Email:       
 Dates of Service:        $ Value:       
 
a
. 
3. Company:        Contact:       
 Address:       
 Phone:        Email:       
 Dates of Service:        $ Value:       
 
a
. 
4. Company:        Contact:       
 Address:       
 Phone:        Email:       
 Dates of Service:        $ Value:       
 
I certify the accuracy of this information. 
 
Signed: ____________________________________Title: ________________________________   Date: _______________  
 
 
 
 28 
APPENDIX D  
 
State Corporation Commission Form 
 
      The offeror: 
 
 Is a corporation or other business entity with the following SCC identification number:      - OR- 
 
 Is not a corporation, limited liability company, limited partnership, registered limited liability 
partnership, or business trust -OR- 
 
 Is an out-of-state business entity that does not regularly and continuously maintain as part of its 
ordinary and customary business any employees, agents, offices, facilities, or inventories in Virginia (not 
counting any employees or agents in Virginia who merely solicit orders that require acceptance outside 
Virginia before they become contracts, and not counting any incidental presence of the bidder in Virginia 
that is needed in order to assemble, maintain, and repair goods in accordance with the contracts by 
which such goods were sold and shipped into Virginia from bidder’s out-of-state location) -OR- 
 
 Is an out-of-state business entity that is including with this bid an opinion of legal counsel which 
accurately and completely discloses the undersigned bidder’s current contacts with Virginia and 
describes why those contacts do not constitute the transaction of business in Virginia within the meaning 
of § 13.1-757 or other similar provisions in Titles 13.1 or 50 of the Code of Virginia. 
 
**NOTE** >> Check the following box if you have not completed any of the foregoing options but 
currently have pending before the SCC an application for authority to transact business in the 
Commonwealth of Virginia and wish to be considered for a waiver to allow you to submit the SCC 
identification number after the due date for bids (the Commonwealth reserves the right to determine in its 
sole discretion whether to allow such waiver):  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 29 
APPENDIX E  
 
Proprietary/Confidential Information Identification 
 
Trade secrets or proprietary information submitted by an Offeror shall not be subject to public disclosure under the Virginia 
Freedom of Information Act; however, the Offeror must invoke the protections of § 2.2- 4342F of the Code of Virginia, in 
writing, either before or at the time the data or other material is submitted. The written notice must specifically identify the 
data or materials to be protected including the section of the proposal in which it is contained, as well as the page numbers, 
and must state the reasons why protection is necessary. The proprietary or trade secret material submitted must be identified 
by some distinct method such as highlighting or underlining and must indicate only the specific words, figures, or paragraphs 
that constitute trade secret or proprietary information. In addition, a summary of proprietary information submitted shall be 
submitted on this form. The classification of an entire proposal document, line item prices, and/or total proposal prices as 
proprietary or trade secrets is not acceptable. If, after being given reasonable time, the Offeror refuses to withdraw such a 
classification designation, the proposal will be rejected. 
 
Name of Firm/Offeror: ______________________________, invokes the protections of § 2.2- 4342F of the Code of 
Virginia for the following portions of my proposal submitted on __________ (Date). 
 
  Check here, if no proprietary/confidential information is contained in your submission. Things to consider, include 
but not limited to personal identifying information (such as full name, address, driver’s license, email address), bank 
account information, financial records, etc.) 
 
Signature: ___________________________________________  
Title: _______________________________________________ 
RFP Number         
 
Section/Title Page 
Number(s) 
Reason(s) for Withholding from Disclosure 
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
 
 
 
  
 
 